# CELEX 52023SC0256
# http://publications.europa.eu/resource/celex/52023SC0256
# 来源 CELLAR DOC300
# 抓取 2026-09-14 06:58 UTC（正文 600000 字符）

1_EN_impact_assessment_part1_v2.docx 
 EUROPEAN COMMISSION
 Brussels, 13.7.2023
 SWD(2023) 256 final
 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT
IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT
 Accompanying the document
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on circularity requirements for vehicle design and on management of end-of-life vehicles, amending Regulations (EU) 2018/858 and 2019/1020 and repealing Directives 2000/53/EC and 2005/64/EC
 {COM(2023) 451 final} - {SEC(2023) 292 final} - {SWD(2023) 255 final} - {SWD(2023) 257 final}
 Table of contents 
 Glossary 
 1 Introduction 
 1.1 Political context 
 1.2 Legal context 
 2 Problem definition 
 2.1 Problem area 1: Lack of integration of circularity in vehicle design and production 
 2.1.1 
 What is the problem? 
 2.1.2 
 What are the problem drivers? 
 2.2 Problem area 2: Lack of quality and quantity in reuse and recycling 
 2.2.1 
 What is the problem? 
 2.2.2 
 What are the problem drivers? 
 2.3 Problem area 3: ‘Missing vehicles’ cause environmental impacts 
 2.3.1 
 What is the problem? 
 2.3.2 
 What are the problem drivers? 
 2.4 Problem area 4: Lack of EU level playing field to improve circularity in the design, production and end-of-life treatment of lorries, buses and motorbikes 
 2.4.1 
 What is the problem? 
 2.4.2 
 Problem drivers 
 2.5 Overview of problems and drivers 
 2.6 Who is affected and how? 
 3 Why should the EU act? 
 3.1 Legal basis 
 3.2 Nature of the legal instrument 
 3.3 Subsidiarity: necessity and added value of EU action 
 4 Objectives: What is to be achieved? 
 4.1 General objectives 
 4.2 Specific objectives 
 5 What are the available policy options? 
 5.1 What is the baseline from which options are assessed? 
 5.2 Description of the policy options 
 5.2.1 
 Policy Options 1A, 1B and 1C (related to specific objective 1 ‘design circular’) 
 5.2.2 
 Policy Options 2A, 2B and 2C (related to specific objective 2 ‘use recycled content’) 
 5.2.3 
 Policy Options 3A, 3B and 3C (related to specific objective 3 ‘treat better”) 
 5.2.4 
 Policy Options 4A, 4B, 4C and 4D (related to specific objective 4 ‘collect more’) 
 5.2.5 
 Policy Options 5A, 5B and 5C (related to specific objectives 1 to 4) 
 5.2.6 
 Policy Options 6A, 6B and 6C (related to specific objective 5 ‘cover more vehicles’) 
 5.3 Measures discarded at an early stage 
 6 What are the impacts of the policy options? 
 6.1 Methodological considerations 
 6.2 Environmental impacts 
 6.2.1 
 Design circular: Improve reusability, recyclability and recoverability, 3R type-approval 
 6.2.2 
 Use recycled content: increase recycling and decarbonise production for selected materials 
 6.2.3 
 Treat better: Improve treatment quality and quantity 
 6.2.4 
 Collect more: Improve collection quality and quantity 
 6.2.5 
 Provide appropriate financial and organisational incentives to improve collection and waste treatment 
 6.2.6 
 Cover more vehicles: Extend the vehicle category scope 
 6.3 Economic impacts 
 6.3.1 
 Design circular: Improve reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 6.3.2 
 Use recycled content: increasing recycling and decarbonising production for selected materials 
 6.3.3 
 Treat better: Improve treatment quality and quantity 
 6.3.4 
 Collect more: Improve collection quality and quantity 
 6.3.5 
 Provide appropriate financial and organisational incentives to improve collection and waste treatment 
 6.3.6 
 Cover more vehicles: Extend the vehicle category scope 
 6.4 Administrative burden 
 6.5 Social impacts 
 6.5.1 
 Job creation 
 6.5.2 
 Impacts on SMEs 
 6.5.3 
 Contribution to SDGs 
 7. How do the options compare? 
 7.1 Summary of impacts and costs/ benefits 
 7.2 Cost benefit analysis, cost efficiency, effectiveness, coherence and proportionality 
 8 Preferred policy package 
 8.1 Preferred options 
 8.2 Combined impacts of the preferred policy package 
 8.3 Expected impacts on the competitiveness of the automotive industry 
 8.4 REFIT (simplification and improved efficiency) 
 8.5 Application of the ‘one in, one out’ approach 
 8.6 International Aspects 
 9 How will actual impacts be monitored? 
 Glossary 
 Term or acronym 
 Meaning or definition 
 3R type-approval (3RTA) Directive 
 Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 ASR 
 Automotive Shredder Residues 
 ATF 
 Authorised Treatment Facilities 
 BAT 
 Best available techniques 
 Batteries Regulation 
 Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of [date] 2023 concerning batteries and waste batteries, amending Directive 2008/98/EC and Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and repealing Directive 2006/66/EC (OJ L […]). 
 BCR 
 Benefit – Cost Ratio (a value > 1 indicates a positive return on investment) 
 BEV 
 Battery Electric Vehicle 
 CEAP 
 Circular Economy Action Plan 
 CoD 
 Certificate of Destruction 
 CPA 
 Circular Plastics Alliance 
 CRM 
 Critical Raw Material 
 EAF - DRI 
 Electric Arc Furnace – Direct Reduced Iron 
 EC 
 European Commission 
 ECHA 
 The European Chemicals Agency 
 EEE 
 Electrical and electronic equipment 
 EGD 
 European Green Deal 
 ELV 
 End-of-life vehicle 
 ELV Directive 
 Directive 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 2000 on end-of life vehicles 
 EoL 
 End-of-life 
 EPR 
 Extended Producer Responsibility 
 ESPR 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council Ecodesign for Sustainable Products 
 ETS 
 Emissions Trading System (https://climate.ec.europa.eu/eu-action/eu-emissions-trading-system-eu-ets_en) 
 EU 
 European Union 
 EV 
 Electric Vehicle 
 GHG 
 Green House Gas 
 HDV 
 Heavy Duty Vehicle (e.g., a bus (M2,M3), lorry (N2,N3) or trailer (O)) as defined in Regulation 2018/858 
 ICE 
 Internal Combustion Engine 
 IMDS 
 International Material Data System 
 ISG 
 Inter-service Steering Group 
 L3e-L7e-category/ ‘motorcycles’ 
 Two-wheel motorcycles (L3e), two-wheel motorcycles with sidecars (L4e), powered tricycles (L5e), light quadricycles (L6e) and heavy quadricycles (L7e), excluding L1e and L2e categories as defined in Regulation 2013/168 
 Li-ion batteries 
 Lithium-ion batteries 
 PHEV 
 Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
 PRO 
 Producer Responsibility Organisation 
 PST 
 Post-Shredder Technologies 
 REACH 
 Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) 
 REE 
 Rare Earth Element 
 RoHS 
 Directive 2011/65/EC on the restriction of the use of certain substances of concern in electrical and electronic equipment 
 SDG 
 Sustainable Development Goals 
 SME 
 Small and Medium-sized Enterprise 
 SUV 
 Sport Utility Vehicle 
 SVHC 
 Substance of Very High Concern 
 WEEE 
 Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
 WEEE Directive 
 Directive 2012/19/EU on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) 
 WFD 
 Waste Framework Directive, Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste 
 1 Introduction 
 1.1 Political context 
 The European Green Deal (EGD) is Europe’s growth strategy to ensure by 2050 a climate neutral, clean and circular economy, optimising resource management and minimising pollution. The Circular Economy Action Plan (CEAP) 
 1 
 and the New Industrial Strategy for Europe 
 2 
 lay out the roadmap for the European industry to meet the EGD objectives . The Circular Economy Action Plan contains a commitment to review the legislation on end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) with the aim to “promote more circular business models by linking design issues to end-of-life treatment, consider rules on mandatory recycled content for certain materials, and improve recycling efficiency”. The EU Action Plan: ” Towards Zero Pollution for Air, Water and Soil ” 
 3 
 also stressed the need for the Commission to propose new measures to address the EU’s external environmental footprin t linked to the export of ELV s and used vehicles. The European Council 
 4 
 and the Parliament 
 5 
 have both recognised the importance of this initiative. 
 In this light, t he purpose of this impact assessment is to provide the evidence needed for the joint review of the Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles (“ELV Directive”) 
 6 
 and of Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability (“3R type-approval” Directive) 
 7 
 . The review of these Directives aims to boost the transition of the automotive sector to a circular economy, thereby reducing the environmental footprint linked to the production and end-of-life treatment of vehicles and strengthening the sustainability of the automotive and recycling industry in Europe . 
 The invasion of Ukraine by Russia in 2022 reiterated the importance for the EU industry to reduce the vulnerability of its supply chains, especially for critical raw materials (CRMs) essential for the EU ’s strategic autonomy and for the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. The EU h eads of s tate or g overnment have made the transition to a circular economy a priority in that respect, contributing to securing EU supply of critical raw materials 
 8 
 . This is also a key point in the Green Deal Industrial Plan for the Net-Zero Age 
 9 
 . 
 The automotive sector is a pillar of the EU economy and its transition to more circular model s will have a considerable spill over effect on key related industries , especially the extraction and processing sectors . The automotive industry is embedded in complex and global supply chains and has recently faced production shutdowns, semiconductor shortages and problems sourcing skilled labour. This initiative comes at a time of supply chain challenges and intense competition which have put pressure on automotive manufacturers to reduce costs and improve efficiency. The shift towards electric vehicles, as the EU and other major automotive markets in the world seek to drastically reduce the carbon intensity of road transport, requires a major transformation of the industry and heavy investments in new technologies such as battery production to stay competitive. In addition, the automotive sector is one of the largest users of CRMs in the EU industry and the electrification of the fleet will lead to a considerable increase in the demand for these materials . Increasing the recovery of CRMs used in the automotive sector is therefore an essential element of this review, and an important contribution to the overall EU strategy to improve the security of supply of such materials, as reflected in the Commission proposal for a CRM Act 
 10 
 . 
 The transition of the automotive sector to circularity is also key to reach ing by 2050 the climate neutrality targets included in the European Green Deal , complementing the various initiatives under the “Fit for 55” package 
 11 
 . The initiative is also consistent with other recently launched initiatives designed to improve the eco-design of products and ensure sustainable management of waste, especially the proposal for a new Regulation on batteries 
 12 
 , the proposal for a Regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products 
 13 
 , the proposal for a Regulation on Ecodesign for Sustainable Products ( ESPR ) 
 14 
 and the proposal for a new Waste Shipment Regulation 
 15 
 . Finally, this initiative complements other recent legislative developments designed to transform the automotive industry, such as the proposed revised CO 2 standards for cars and vans 
 16 
 , the proposed Euro 7 standard on emissions from new motor vehicles 
 17 
 and the ongoing revision of the three Directives of the “Roadworthiness Package” 
 18 
 . A more detailed description of the interaction between this initiative and other EU policies and legislation can be found in Annex 10 . This initiative supports the implementation of the Sustainable develo pment Goals (SDGs) , in particular SDG 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure”, SDG 12 “Responsible consumption and production”, SDG13 “Climate a ction“ . 
 1.2 Legal context 
 The ELV Directive was adopted in 2000 and established for the first time a harmonised EU framework designed to ensure the environmentally sound treatment of vehicles reaching the end of their life and considered as waste 
 19 
 . To this end, the ELV Directive sets out measures which need to be implemented by the Member States and relat e to: 
 1. The prevention of waste, especially measures to limit the presence of hazardous substances in vehicles and to encourage Member States to take account and facilitate the recycling and reuse of vehicles and their parts, in the design and production stage of new vehicles; 
 2. The collection of ELV s , notably through obligations for Member States to ensure that authorised treatment facilities (ATFs) are available within their territory, that ELV s are transferred to ATFs and that th is transfer occurs without any costs for the last holder; 
 3. The environmentally sound treatment of ELVs , through requirements on depollution ; 
 4. The setting of annual targets for the reuse and recycling (85%) as well as reuse and recovery (95%) of ELVs , based on the overall weight of vehicles ; 
 5. The provision of information by producers on components and materials used in vehicles, to facilitate their identification for reuse and recovery. 
 This Directive contains 13 Articles and 2 Annexes. Except for the Annex II on hazardous substance restrictions, i t has not been subject to any substantial amendments since its adoption in 20 0 0. At the occasion of the revision of the Waste Framework Directive in 2018 , the co-legislators agreed 
 20 
 that the Commission “shall review [the ELV] Directive, by 31 December 2020, and to this end, shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council, accompanied, if appropriate, by a legislative proposal” . It indicates that the ELV Directive revision should focus on the feasibility of setting recycling targets for specific materials and the problem of ‘unknown whereabouts’ of end-of-life vehicles . 
 The 3R t ype -approval Directive 
 21 
 , adopted in 2005, aims to improve the design of new vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability. The need for this Directive was foreseen when the ELV Directive was adopted in 2000 , in order to link the provisions of the ELV Directive ( like the prohibition of certain hazardous substances , treatment of ELVs and the reuse, recycling and recovery targets ) to ‘design’ provisions in the type-approval process . In particular, the Directive states that vehicles should be constructed so as to be 85% recyclable /reusable and 95% reusable/recoverable. The 3R t ype -approval Directive is part of the type-approval framework 
 22 
 , whereby new vehicle types are tested and granted type-approval before being placed on the EU market , provided they meet a set of technical requirements . It places obligations on national type-approval authorities to verify information provided by car manufacturers on reusability, recyclability and recoverability of new vehicle type s . 
 2 Problem definition 
 This impact assessment addresses the following four problems: 
 1. The design and production of new vehicles do not sufficiently contribute to the ambitions of the European Green Deal for a climate-neutral, clean and circular economy ( ‘ design and production ’ problem area); 
 2. The treatment of vehicles at the end of their life is suboptimal compared to its potential to contribute to a climate-neutral, clean and circular economy ( ‘waste treatment ’ problem area ) ; 
 3. An important share of vehicles subject to the ELV Directive are not collected to be treated under sound environmental conditions in the EU, contribut ing to pollution in third countries (‘ collection ’ problem area); 
 4. The re is no EU level playing field for the design, production and e nd-of-life treatment o f vehicles currently outside the scope of the ELV Directive , result ing in unexploited potential to the circular economy objectives of the European Green Deal ( ‘ scope ’ problem area). 
 These four problems were identified in the evaluation s of the ELV Directive 
 23 
 and of the 3R type-approval Directive 
 24 
 as prevent ing the transition of the overall automotive supply chain to a circular economy . 
 These problems relate to all stages of the life cycle of the automotive sector beyond use (design, production, waste management). They have different features and affect different economic operators (vehicle manufacturers, dismantlers, recyclers, authorities). This impact assessment therefore provides in the first place an analysis of their specific drivers and of specific options designed to address each of the objectives corresponding to these problems separately. This allows for a thorough presentation of each problem and of the different possible options to address them, as well as of their respective impacts. 
 It is however also essential that these problems are addressed in a consistent and mutually supportive manner to improve circularity across the whole automotive supply chain. There are clear links and synergies between the problems, objectives and measures linked to design, production, waste collection and recycling. For example, improving the design and production of new vehicles is key to ensuring higher quantity and quality of recycling of ELV, and improving quality of recyclates from ELVs is also essential to allow them to be taken up as recycled materials in new vehicles. For that reason, after an analysis of options specific to each problem, this impact assessment provides, in section 8.1, a preferred package of options covering them all, which represents the most effective and efficient solution to meet the general objective of this initiative (improving circularity for the whole automotive supply chain). A more detailed presentation of these problems and their drivers are provided in Annex 6. 
 2.1 Problem area 1: Lack of integration of circularity in vehicle design and production 
 2.1.1 What is the problem? 
 The EU automotive sector is among the world's biggest , provi ding 13.8 million direct and indirect jobs, representing 6.1% of total EU employment. In 2021, 12 million motor vehicles (cars, vans, lorries, buses) were manufactured in the EU and 11.5 million were placed on the EU market 
 25 
 . The production of vehicles is one of the most resource intensive industries and represents a significant impact in terms of use of raw materials. Europe’s automotive sector is responsible for 19% of the demand of the EU’s steel industry (over 7 million tons /year 
 26 
 ), 10% of the overall consumption of plastics (6 million tons /year 
 27 
 ), a significant share of the demand for aluminium (42% for all transport equipment, around 2 million tons /year 
 28 
 ), copper (6% for automotive parts 
 29 
 ), rubber (65% of the production of general rubber goods 
 30 
 ) and glass (1 . 5 million tons of flat glass produced in the EU 
 31 
 ). The electrification of the automotive sector, combined with the increasing integration of electronics in vehicles, will lead to more copper and CRMs , including rare earth elements 
 32 
 in vehicles , as well as more advanced and lightweight materials like high grade steels and rapidly growing demand for aluminium alloys . The market demand has also resulted in a steady ris e in sales of Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs). SUVs represented around 40% of annual car sales of vehicles in Europe in 20 20 , compared to 10% in 2010. SUVs are heavier than conventional cars and their production requires greater amount s of primary materials, which considerably increases their environmental footprint. This has compounded the trend for heavier vehicles . 
 The result is that the production of vehicles represents a considerable environmental footprint, primarily due to the GHG emissions linked to the energy required for the extraction and processing of primary materials such as coal and iron ore (for steel), bauxite (for aluminium), copper or oil (for plastics). The extraction and processing of metals represent about 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions globally. The automotive industry is undergoing profound changes towards climate-neutrality through the electrification of the vehicle fleet. As a result, t he “production phase ” in the vehicle lifecycle will have a higher environmental footprint than its “use phase” , notably due to the importance of raw materials for the manufacturing of EVs . In terms of shares of the production carbon footprint, aluminium will be contribut ing 35-50% 
 33 
 , steel 15-25% , plastics 4-7% , compared to 10-20% for the battery raw materials 
 34 
 . 
 The dependence on primary materials is also making the supply chain for the automotive industry more vulnerable , compounding the challenges observed recently with disruptions for semi-conductors or magnesium and the hike in energy prices that followed the start of the war in Ukraine. 
 The automotive sector is only recently starting to embrace the decarbonisation of their production process to enable a full transition to a circular economy . Due to quality requirements, t he automotive industry relies heavily on the supply of primary raw materials and uses very little recycled materials . This is the case especially for plastics, steel 
 35 
 and aluminium 
 36 
 . Notwithstanding the recent advances made by EU automotive industry frontrunners, t he current level of integration of circular models in the design, production and end-of-life stages of the vehicle lifecycle remains insufficient to attain the objectives of the Circular Economy Action Plan to “ promote more circular business models by linking design issues to end-of-life treatment, consider rules on mandatory recycled content for certain materials, and improve recycling efficiency ” . 
 2.1.2 What are the problem d rivers ? 
 The drivers for this problem are a combination of market and regulatory failures which result in a lack of integration of circularity in the design and production phase of vehicles. 
 Market failure 
 Prices of primary materials do not factor in environmental externalities of extraction and processing and are generally lower than secondary materials due to economies of scale. The lack of market demand for secondary materials has in turn not encouraged the recycling sector to invest and increase supply and quality of recyclates suitable for the automotive sector. 
 Regulatory failures 
 Regulatory requirements designed to ensure that the automotive sector reaches climate-neutrality have focused on the use phase of vehicles (rather than on the circularity in the production and end-of-life stages). This has encouraged the incorporation of lightweight and composite materials in new vehicles, which are particularly challenging and costly to recycle. The growing use of new techniques to assemble parts (typically gluing elements instead of using screws) in vehicles has further hampered easy dismantling and high-quality recycling of ELVs. 
 The provisions in the ELV Directive 
 37 
 on the design of cars to facilitate dismantling, re-use, remanufacturing and recycling, as well as the use of recycled content , are too generic. T he provisions in the 3R t ype -approval Directive lack specificity , for example for the verification that (i) the reus ability , recycl ability and recover ability targets are met and for (ii) incentivising a more sustainable vehicle design and production . The verification of how vehicle manufacturers meet their obligations on recyclability and recoverability is largely built on the ISO 22628 standard from 2002 
 38 
 that does not take into account the degree of development in recycling technologies and allows for a wide interpretation as to what materials can be considered as “recyclable ” . In addition, there is no reporting obligation for Member States and the Commission on the implementation of the 3R t ype -approval Directive and no regular monitoring has been carried out at this point. Moreover, there are no legal incentives for manufacturers to increase the amount of recycled content in new vehicles or to use materials and parts which can be easily repaired, dismantled, re-used, remanufactured or recycled 
 39 
 . Lack of clarity in definitions for secondary raw materials makes it difficult to distinguish between primary and secondary raw materials and between post -consumer scrap and pre-consumer scrap . 
 2.2 Problem area 2: Lack of quality and quantity in reuse and recycling 
 2.2.1 What is the problem? 
 V ehicles reaching the ir end of life currently are not managed in optimal conditions. About 6 . 1 million ELVs are collected e very year in the EU, representing 6 . 9 million tons of waste 
 40 
 , with 66% (4 million tons ) of ferrous metals, 11% (0 . 7 million tons ) of non-ferrous metals, 2% (0 . 1 million tons ) of glass and 14% (1 million tons 
 41 
 ) of mixed plastics 
 42 
 . While substantial progress has been made since 2000 to reach the 85% recycling/re-use target set out in ELV Directive, a large share of materials , in particular Automotive Shredder Residues (ASR) is sent to landfills or incinerated. The share of plastics in the composition of vehicles has considerably increased, and today ranges from 14 to 18% of the total weight of new passenger cars. Only 19% of plastics or 0 . 2 million tons per year from ELVs is currently going to recycling and 0.1 million tons are effectively recycled, while around 0.8 million tons of plastic waste per year either ends up in landfills (40%) or is sent to waste-to-energy facilities (41%). 
 The increased use of certain materials in new vehicles since the introduction of the ELV Directive poses challenges , in particular the integration of c arbon - fibre - and , most of all , glass - fibre - reinforced plastics a s lightweight material s that cannot currently be recycled easily . The widespread use of e lectronics in new vehicles creates additional difficulties . They contain important concentrations of CRMs , including REEs , which are currently not recycled at the end-of-life 
 43 
 . Finally, while the recycling rates of metals like steel (88%) or aluminium (95%) from ELVs are high, the quality of the scrap is often too low , notably due to contamination with other materials during the shredding process . For steel this is typically due to high level s of copper content in ELV scrap and for aluminium due to insufficient sorting of alloys respectively containing zinc, copper, silicon and magnesium alloying elements accumulating in cast aluminium. This prevents higher scrap utilisation rates in the production of new high - grade products and the scrap is downcycled for other purposes . 
 The share of parts and components from ELVs which are re-used or remanufactured remains low. The suboptimal management of waste from ELVs represents a loss of resources for the industry in the EU, either because waste is not recycled back into the economy (especially for plastics or glass) or because the quality of the scrap is often too low (especially for steel and aluminium) for direct use by the industry in the EU. 
 2.2.2 What are the problem drivers? 
 The potential for higher quantity and quality of materials from ELVs to be re-used, remanufactured and recycled remains underexploited, due to the following regulatory and market failures: 
 Market failures 
 It is currently not profitable to recycle from ELVs materials such as plastics and glass or precious metals from electronic components . E conomies of scale and incentives to promote better quality of scrap are lacking . Authorised Treatment Facilities ( ATFs ) are mostly SMEs which make their business in the commercialisation of the most valuable spare parts removed from ELVs and the sale of depolluted ELVs to shredders. The market for ot her spare parts 
 44 
 remain s limited, as t he cost for the ir dismantling is high and m any ATFs are not equipped to reach out to a wide r range of customers for instance on digital marketplaces . After ATFs, ELVs are transferred to shredder s where , in most Member States, there is no sophisticated technolog y in place to sort, separate and recover various materials contained in ELVs into clean fractions , notably high - quality steel and aluminium scrap s and plastics suitable for mechanical recycling . Investments in “post shredding technologies” (PST) are cap ital intensive and they remain underdeveloped across the EU. 
 Regulatory failure 
 The definition of “recycling” in the ELV Directive includes “backfilling” 
 45 
 and is broader than other definitions applied to other waste streams, pursuant to the Waste Framework Directive . As a result, in some Member States, considerable amounts of wastes from ELVs, especially inert materials , glass particles, mixed plastics, rubbers, fibres and textiles are backfilled and accounted as recycled. The methodology to calculate that the recycling/re-use targets are met is not sufficient to provide clear evidence that only waste which enters recycling is counted towards the achievement of the targets 
 46 
 . The ELV and 3R t ype -approval Directives do not sufficiently incentivise vehicle manufacturers to provide dismantling information on components and materials that would facilitate ATFs, garages and repair shops to identify , locate and dismantle valuable spare parts and components . As an example, the lack of sufficient information on CRMs contained in vehicles do not ease their early-stage disassembly and sorting in the authorised treatment facilities. The provisions on this point in Article 8 of the ELV Directive, and their implementation by the vehicle manufacturers, are often seen by the dismantling sector as too limited, notably as the information might not be free of charge and not user-friendly. There is no incentive either in the current legal framework for economic operators to increase the re-use and remanufacturing rates of parts from used vehicles or ELVs . 
 Regarding financial responsibility , the ELV Directive does not specify that car manufacturers should contribute financially to the costs linked to the dismantling, re-use, remanufacturing and recycling of materials and components from ELVs. This co ntrast s with other sectors, such as batteries, electric and electronic equipment and packaging, where “extended producer responsibility” (EPR) schemes explicitly include the financing by producers of the waste management phase of their products. In March 2022, the Commission carried out inspections at the premises of automotive companies and associations of such companies, based on concerns that several of them may have violated antitrust rules and colluded to agree not to provide any financial support to the dismantling and recycling sector. The investigations on this case are ongoing 
 47 
 . 
 2.3 Problem area 3 : ‘Missing vehicles’ cause environmental impacts 
 2.3.1 What is the problem? 
 While around 6. 1 million ELVs are reported to be treated according to the ELV Directive every year, it is estimated that around 3 2 % of de-registered vehicles, i.e. , approximately 3. 4 million units per year, are of unknown whereabouts (so-called “missing vehicles”) and 1 million units (10%) are exported as used vehicles . Despite numerous studies on this problem 
 48 
 , it remains challenging to estimate the proportion of these vehicles gone missing due to administrative failures, illegal dismantling in the EU or illegal export outside the EU. In any case, the treatment of ELVs and the recovery of materials from these ELVs is not in accordance with the requirements and causes environmental damages , such as oil spillage, unsound treatment of refrigerants or improper re moval of hazardous substances a nd of components for higher quality of recycling . This represents unfair competition and economic losses for authorised treatment facilities , which have to abide by EU rules. It further means a loss of secondary resources which are important for reducing industry’s environmental footprint through the use of recyclates instead of primary resources. Illegal dismantling and export of ELVs are also feeding criminal networks . 
 The export of used vehicles also raises important environmental and public health challenges. While the export of ELV s from the EU to non-OECD countries are considered as hazardous waste and thus banned, this is not the case for used vehicles that have not (clearly) reached the waste stage. Although these vehicles are not formally waste , they are exported to third countries are often close to end of service stage, meaning that they cannot be used for the primary purpose they w ere conceived, in a fully safe manner. The EU is the biggest exporter of used vehicles worldwide. I n 2020 , the number of used vehicles exported from the EU to third countries amounted to 870 , 000 vehicles at a value of € 3.85 billion . The most important destination s are Africa, Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Middle East. U sed vehicles exported from the EU contribute to affordable access to mobility in third countries , where they are used longer than in the EU. However, as documented in a recent study 
 49 
 on the quality of used vehicles carried out by the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management , a significant part (more than 60%) of used vehicles exported to African countries do not meet Euro 4/IV emissions standard, are older than 15 years and do not have a valid roadworthiness certificate. The roadworthiness status proves that the vehicle is in a technically and environmentally sound condition to use it 
 50 
 . Therefore, it is an essential factor determining the appropriateness and full functionality of a vehicle to be safely exploited during its service phase. According to the Correspondents Guidelines No 9 “Shipments of Waste Vehicles” 
 51 
 , f ailure to pass a periodic roadworthiness test for more than 2 years may be considered as one of the indicators to suspect that the vehicle is not functional anymore, it is technically irreparable, and thus should be considered as an end-of-life vehicle. T here are also indications that a considerable portion of exported vehicles undergo illegal alterations, like the removal of air bags and exhaust filters . They present a serious risk of polluting the environment and for road safety. According to WHO, road accidents cause the death of 1.25 million people and injure 20-50 million people annually. Despite having only 54% of the global vehicle fleet, low and middle-income countries account for 90% of these fatalities. The African continent , which is the main destination of used vehicles exported from the EU , has the highest road traffic fatality rates, with 246,000 deaths annually, and this figure is expected to rise to 514,000 in 2030, representing an increase of 112%. In order to address these problems, and a s documented by the UN Environmental Programme 
 52 
 , a growing number of countries and regional organisations 
 53 
 committed to restrict the import of used vehicles, based on their age , compliance with air pollutant emission limits (Euro standards ) or roadworthiness criteria . 
 2.3.2 What are the problem drivers? 
 The drivers for this problem are a mix of regulatory and market failures resulting in (i) a lack of traceability (ii) insufficient enforcement and (iii) the absence of considerations linked to roadworthiness and environmental protection when used vehicles are exported from the EU. 
 Market failures 
 There are economic incentives for insurance companies, dealers and private owners of ELVs to sell them on online market places or directly to non-authorised treatment facilities or export them in contravention of EU rules: they will obtain higher prices than if they have to deliver them to authorised treatment facilities, which have to abide by the requirements of the ELV Directive for the treatment of these vehicles and are subject to social security, employment and other fiscal charges (unlike the informal sector). 
 The steady demand in developing countries is an important driver for the export of used vehicles outside the EU, associated with the high prices that exporters of such vehicles can obtain compared to what they could gain with selling them in the EU. There are also factors that can make it difficult to sell certain types of used vehicles in the EU, such as emission taxes and restrictions on access to urban centres. This can make it more attractive for exporters to sell these vehicles in developing countries where such restrictions might not exist. Overall, the demand for used vehicles in developing countries is a significant factor in the global trade in used vehicles and is likely to remain so in the future. The global fleet of LDVs is set to at least double by 2050. Some 90% of this growth will take place in non-OECD countries which import a large number of used vehicles. 
 Regulatory failures 
 The ELV Directive and the EU legislation on registration documents and roadworthiness do not contain sufficient provisions to track a vehicle until it reaches the end-of-life . Especially, the obligation to record and report ELVs, upon issuance of a certificate of destruction (COD), is not clearly attributed to stakeholders and public authorities. The difficulty in exchanging information on the registration and de-registration of vehicles contained in the vehicle registers of the different Member States is a key obstacle to the problem of unknown whereabouts. 
 The absence of clear and legally binding criteria on the distinction between used vehicles and ELVs also makes enforcement of the requirements of the ELV Directive very challenging. Specific guidelines 
 54 
 were developed to assist enforcement and customs officials in implementing the rules on the export of ELVs, and especially to distinguish between ELVs and used cars. These guidelines are however non-binding and are combined with a lack of enforcement capacity . T he illegal sector widely exploits this grey area , notably to export illegally ELVs , which are waste and shall be subject to treatment under the EU waste legislation, however they are present ed as used vehicles , for which no trade restrictions apply . Even economic actors in the formal sector 
 55 
 regularly auction total loss vehicles without check ing their final destinations . 
 Moreover, t he absence of a requirement to export from the EU only roadworthy vehicles allow s export s of used vehicles even for those not authorised to be driven on EU roads due to lack of compliance with safety or environmental rules . The enforcement of the mandatory roadworthiness status of a vehicle is an essential part of the EU regime designed to ensure that vehicles are kept in a safe and environmentally acceptable condition during their use. Directive 2014/45/EU 
 56 
 contains a long list of minimum elements which have to be tested , in order for a vehicle to obtain a roadworthiness certificate. Every vehicle that is at least 4 years old circulating on EU roads has to have a valid roadworthiness certificate. As per Article 5 of Directive 2014/45/EU, cars and vans must be tested at least every two years after the age of 4, while heavy-duty vehicles, including their trailers must undergo inspections every year . In accordance wit h the EU legislation, each Member State shall recognise the roadworthiness certificate issued by tother Member State . While these requirements are a condition for a vehicle to be used on EU roads, they are currently not relevant when used vehicles are exported from the EU to third countries. In addition, t here are also no requirements that exporters of used vehicles and competent authorities of EU Member States check that used vehicles comply with the conditions set out by importing countries for the import of such vehicles. 
 There are no specific provisions in the ELV Directive requiring the Member States to carry out inspections or take enforcement actions to ensure that its provisions are properly implemented, or to establish penalties against breaches of the requirements set out in the Directive. 
 2.4 P roblem area 4 : L ack of EU level playing field to improve circularity in the design , production and end-of-life treatment of lorries, bu s es and motorbikes 
 2.4.1 What is the problem? 
 The ELV and 3R t ype-approval Directives apply to passenger vehicles (M1) , as well as to light commercial vehicles (N1) 
 57 
 . Around 85 % of 323 million vehicles registered in the EU fall within the scope of ELV Directive 
 58 
 . 15% of registered vehicles are therefore not covered , representing around 52 million vehicles ( motorcycles ( L3e-L7e ) , lorries and buses) 
 59 
 . By mass, this represents 3 3 % of registered vehicles, or 191 million tons . The average sum of materials from motorcycles ), busses and lorries that became waste in 2019 can be estimated to amount to more than 4.13 million tons 
 60 
 . L1 and L2 including e-bikes and mopeds, although included in the LMT definition under the Battery Regulation, are not considered for the scope extension here 
 61 
 . The reason is that they are smaller than motorcycles, are not included in the vehicle registrations in certain member states and are typically collected via bicycle and scooter dealers compared to large motorcycles. 
 There is no comprehensive information on the treatment of end-of-life motorcycles, lorries and buses. The information gathered for this impact assessment shows that there is an important market for used spare parts dismantled from end-of-life motorcycles and lorries, and that the treatment of the vehicles outside the scope of the current legislation also has specific features: 
 · End-of-Life motorcycles are often treated by small operators in the EU ; 
 · End-of-life l orries have a longer lifetime than M1-N1 vehicles, are exported in large number (up to 75%) outside the EU when reaching a certain age and , when dismantled in the EU, are usually treated in facilities which are either specialised in their treatment, or also treat end-of-life passenger cars ; 
 · A non-negligible share of used busses (around 33%) are exported outside the EU , and their dismantling raises specific challenges dues to a lower share of metals and higher share of textile and glass compared to other vehicles . 
 The vehicles excluded from the ELV and 3R type-approval Directives are currently not subject to any specific requirement when it comes to eco-design and their waste phase. The consequences of this exclusion are the following: 
 1. N o guarantee on the environmentally sound management of the waste stemming from end-of-life vehicles outside the scope of the legislation ; 
 2. N o legal incentive for the re-use or recycling of large volume of parts, components and materials (steel, iron, aluminium, copper, CRMs, plastics, glass…) stemming from such waste ; 
 3. N o legal incentive to increase the design for circularity of the vehicles in question ; 
 4. R isk of a fragmentation of the EU market as individual Member States take individual measures to address the end -of-life stage of the vehicles concerned. 
 The data collected for this impact assessment shows that at least seven Member States have adopted various types of legal provisions governing the end-of-life stage of lorries, buses or motorbikes. Many of them have especially established a requirement that these vehicles should be delivered to an ATF at end-of-life and require that their dismantling complies with specific obligations, especially on depollution. This poses the risk of fragmenting the EU market, as economic actors willing to escape national rules could decide to get their vehicles dismantled in another EU Member State with lower or no requirements. 
 Overall, the integration of circularity in the business model of producers of vehicles outside the scope of the ELV and 3R type-approval Directives largely relies on voluntary actions. 
 2.4.2 P roblem drivers 
 Regulatory failures 
 The main driver for the problem outlined above is the exclusion of powered two- and three wheelers, lorries and buses from the scope of the ELV and 3R type-approval Directives. More than twenty years after adoption of the ELV Directive, this has led to a situation where there is no transparency on the degree of circularity of the sectors concerned and that they are not incentivised to go beyond a “business as usual” scenario. The fact that a few Member States have started to set out national regulations covering the end-of-life stage of vehicles not in the scope of the EU legislation is a sign that the current limited scope is considered as sub-optimal. 
 2.5 Overview of problems and drivers 
 Figure 1 below presents an overview of the main problems this initiative aims to address, their drivers and consequences, in line with what is presented in Sections 2.1 to 2.4. 
 Figure 1 - Problems, drivers and consequences 
 2.6 W ho is affected and how? 
 The stakeholders which are primarily affected by the problems described in this section are those involved in the whole supply chain for the design, production and waste management of vehicles. This includes vehicle manufacturers, importers, suppliers of spare parts for the automotive industry, dismantlers (which are mostly SMEs), shredding/recycling companies, industries relying on scraps as feedstock for their production (notably in the steel, aluminium, copper and plastics sectors), exporters of used vehicles, insurance companies (who own and sell a large share of ELVs), workers, consumers, non-EU stakeholders like third-country producers exporting vehicles to the EU and importers of used vehicles from the EU, competent authorities in charge of the implementation of the ELV and type-approval legislation. More information on how these stakeholders are affected by the initiative can be found in Annex 3. 
 3 Why should the EU act? 
 3.1 Legal basis 
 The legislative proposal is based on Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which is to be used for measures that aim to establish or ensure the functioning of the internal market. This is essential as the proposal is designed to set out requirements which govern the placing on the EU market of motor vehicles. 
 The proposal tackles a number of key problems related to the single market. These include: i) an uneven playing field for vehicles placed on the market; ii) barriers to the functioning of recycling markets and improvement in economies of scale; iii) uneven implementation of the ELV Directive, since applicable rules are subject to interpretation; iv) lack of attention to quality and value retention in reuse and recycling; v) the persistent problem of ‘missing vehicles’ and lack of clarity to distinguish ELVs from used vehicles in the case of export and (vi) the need for a stable and fully harmonised regulatory framework, in particular related to uneven implementation of the polluter pays principle across Member States. 
 Harmonised rules are necessary to ensure that all goods placed on the EU market comply with similar conditions. Article 114 TFEU is the legal basis of the overall regulatory framework on type-approval of motor vehicles, including the 3R type-approval Directive, whereas the ELV Directive has an environmental legal basis (Article 192 TFEU). At the time of adoption of the ELV Directive, the choice of an environmental legal basis was justified as the Directive did not place any direct obligations on any economic operators, in particular no obligations linked to the placing on the market of vehicles, and as it essentially set out measures to be adopted by the Member States, targeting the end-of-life stage of a vehicle. 
 The policy options will lead to further harmonisation of: product requirements for vehicles placed on the Union market, in particular related to i) harmonised requirements for the inclusion of recycled content for plastics, steel and CRMs; ii) harmonised and improved materials declarations on the presence and locations of hazardous substances, the levels of recycled content for a range of materials including CRMS, and iii) improved requirement on information exchanges facilitating reuse and recycling. The proposal will also set requirements for ensuring a well-functioning market for secondary raw materials while preventing and reducing the environmental impacts from the production and recycling of vehicles. 
 The new legislation will modernise the existing requirements relating to the placing on the market of vehicles on the EU market, which currently are included in the 3R type-approval Directive, and those requirements will be merged with the rules applicable to the end-of-life stage of the vehicle. The new legislation will furthermore include a number of new provisions aimed at closing the material loop in products. With this in mind, it is appropriate that the new legislation is based on Article 114 TFEU, thus allowing for both ensuring a smooth functioning of the internal market and a high level of environmental protection. 
 The choice of Article 114 of the TF EU as a legal basis allows to build environmental-related requirements as the core elements of conditions on the type-approval and thereby the placing on the EU market of vehicles. It follows other examples of legislative proposals tabled by the Commission recently, aim ing at covering in one single instrument sustainability/circularity requirements applying to the whole lifecycle of products, such as the proposal for a B atteries R egulation 
 62 
 , the proposal for a Regulation on Eco-design for Sustainable Products 
 63 
 and the proposal for a Regulation on Packaging and Packaging Waste 
 64 
 . 
 3.2 Nature of the legal instrument 
 The evaluation of the ELV Directive and 3R type-approval Directive identified the generic nature of their provisions as one of their main shortcomings. Many of these provisions were found to be too general, not setting sufficiently clear requirements and not measurable. This led to diverging interpretation among the Member States (for example on the calculation of recycling targets), to a lack of progress (for example on design for recycling) or could not be properly monitored (for example the provisions in the 3R type-approval on the verification by Member States that vehicle producers adequately demonstrate that new vehicle types comply with the requirements on re-usability, recyclability and recoverability). This is hampering the functioning of the EU single market and not resulting in a better protection of the environment. 
 In addition, the co-existence of two separate legal acts (ELV Directive and 3R type-approval Directive) brings with it the risk that their respective provisions are not synchronised. The provisions of both Directives are intrinsically linked, as the 3R type-approval Directive needs to mirror the provisions of the ELV Directive. The merger of the two existing Directives into a single Regulation represents the most efficient solution to ensure this synchronisation. It will provide the necessary legal certainty, simplify the current regulatory landscape by gathering all requirements into a single act and contribute to a stronger EU market integration. A Regulation will ensure that the obligations are implemented at the same time and in the same manner in all 27 EU Member States in a harmonised way. Compared to a Directive, the choice of Regulation also reduces the administrative costs linked to the transposition process into national legislation and allows new EU requirements to apply earlier. The choice of a Regulation is consistent with the rest of the type-approval regulatory framework, where Directives have been turned into Regulations as part of the measures adopted at the EU level in the aftermath of the “Dieselgate” emissions scandal. 
 3.3 Subsidiarity: n ecessity and added value of EU action 
 To ensure a harmonised and well-functioning internal market across all EU Member States and enable a smooth transition of the automotive sector to the circular economy, in line with the ambition of the European Green Deal, it is essential to put in place a common set of rules at the EU level, with clear requirements and obligations addressed to both Member States and economic operators. Otherwise, the risk is to fragment the EU market and make progress on circular economy dependent on voluntary actions by economic actors or individual Member States. EU action is necessary to meet all the objectives of this initiative. 
 The EU automotive sector benefits greatly from the internal market. As indicated above, type-approval rules streamline the conditions linked to the placing on the EU market as adopted at EU level. Without active EU level regulatory intervention, only small-scale and local incentives to design and produce vehicles in a way which limits the use of primary materials and increase the use of secondary materials are expected, as there are no legally binding provisions on the design for circularity of such vehicles today. 
 Harmonisation of requirements would facilitate the development of modern and environmentally sound infrastructure for the treatment for all vehicles in the EU, support innovation and address the implementation problems related to the different interpretations of existing legislation. It would also allow setting a clear reporting and monitoring mechanism, resulting in transparency and data comparability across the sector. 
 The difficulties related to the “missing vehicles” are common to all Member States. The cross-border dimension of the problem is one of its main features and requires an EU response. There were different attempts by some Member States to address the problem, which have not proven effective. The difficulty in exchanging information on the registration of vehicles between vehicle registers of the different Member States requires a harmonised solution. The same goes for the export of used vehicles from the EU, which can only be governed at the EU level in view of the EU common rules on customs and external trade. 
 Finally, t he treatment of vehicles not covered by the ELV Directive has been regulated diffe rently by the Member States. The study supporting the evaluation of the EU rules on end-of-life vehicles 
 65 
 revealed that only few Member States have established a consistent legal framework for the treatment of these vehicles at the end-of-life , whereas in others it is not clear how they are treated and what consequences to the environment are caused when the treatment is carried under sub-optimal conditions . Maintaining n ationally fragmented regulatory framework s in the EU would l eave more than 45 million vehicles currently on EU roads at hig her risk of encountering illegal dismantling activities, environmentally unsound treatment causing an uneven playing field between economic operators and significant potential loss of valuable secondary raw materials from the ELVs. 
 The objectives of the revision of the EU rules on end-of-life vehicles cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States acting individually but can rather, by reason of the scale and effects of the measures, be better achieved at Union level. 
 4 Objectives: What is to be achieved? 
 4.1 General objectives 
 The overall objective of this initiative is to improve the functioning of the EU internal market by reducing the negative environmental impacts linked to the design, production, service life and end-of-life treatment of vehicles and contributing to the sustainability of the automotive and recycling sectors. 
 4.2 Specific objectives 
 In order to address the problems described in section 2, the initiative seeks to address the following five specific objectives: 
 1. ‘ Design circular’ : Improve circularity at the design phase of vehicles , to facilitate and increase the removal, reuse , remanufacturing and recycling of materials , parts and components contained in vehicles , so that vehicle producers use more materials and technologies which do not hamper the removal of re-usable parts and components, use more materials which are easy to recycle and dismantlers are provided with inform ation allowing them to increase and improve the removal, re-use and recycling of parts, components and materials from ELVs . 
 2. ‘ Use recycled content : Significantly i ncrease the use of recycled materials (especially plastics, steel, aluminium and CRM s ) in the production of vehicles , thereby incentivising recycling, reduc ing strategic dependenc ies of raw materials for the automotive industry and support ing the decarbonisation of the EU industry . 
 3. ‘Treat better’ : Significantly i ncrease the quantity and quality of materials (especially plastics, steel, aluminium and CRMs ) re-used, remanufactured and recycled from ELVs , thereby reducing the environmental footprint linked to the management of the waste generated by the automotive industry , supporting the creation of a dynamic market for secondary materials in the EU and facilitating the incorporation of more reusable parts into used vehicles extending the ir lifespan at moderate costs for end-users . 
 4. ‘Collect more’ : Significantly i ncrease the collection of ELV s in the EU and ensure r oadworthiness of used vehicles exported from the EU , so that the number of “missing vehicles” and the EU external pollution footprint and road safety risks associated with the export of non-roadworthy used vehicles outside the EU are reduced. 
 5. ‘ Cover more vehicles ’ : Increase circular ity in the design, production and end- of-life treatment of vehicle s (lorries, buses , trailers 
 66 
 and L3e-L7e categor y vehicles 
 67 
 ) which are currently outside the scope of the ELV and 3R t ype -approval legislation and ensure that they are treated properly . 
 5 What are the available policy options? 
 5.1 What is the baseline from which options are assesse d? 
 The automotive sector is currently undergo ing a massive transformation in its design and production patterns, triggered by the shift to (heavier) electric vehicles , increasing use of advanced and lightweight materials and the growing number of electronic component s in vehicles. The main share of the environmental footprint of the automotive sector will shift from the use phase to the materials production and end-of-life phase . Electrification will increase the mass in vehicles in general and of non- ferrous metals in particular . The trend to put on the market larger and heavier vehicles (like SUV s ) is expected to continue, which translates into an increasing use of primary materials and its associated carbon footprint, which can offset the environmental gains linked to the phasing out of combustion engine . For aluminium for instance, current ELV s contain around 100 kg of predominantly cast alloys, whereas average ne w vehicles contain 180 kg and BEVs more than 320 kg of aluminium per vehicle , predominantly wrought alloys 
 68 
 . For global production , a four-fold increase in aluminium demand is expected 
 69 
 towards 2050 . The limitations inherent to both the ELV and the 3R type-approval Directives (generic provisions, limited monitoring and enforcement) would remain, and prevent real changes towards making the design and production of all vehicles placed on the EU market more circular. 
 Novel components , advanced materials and mo re complex (and lighter) vehicle designs will further increase the reliance of the sector on CRMs . Electric drivetrains will significantly increase the share of electric drive motors in the EU fleet , either being induction motors or permanent magnet motors 
 70 
 containing rare earth elements such as neodymium and dysprosium for their construction 
 71 
 . Dysprosium demand will double by 2030 to six times higher by 2050; praseodymium will increase by 50% in 2030 and double by 2050 
 72 
 ; for neodymium an eleven-fold increase by 2032 is expected 
 73 
 . Increasing numbers of electronic components shifts the presence of platinum-group metals from catalysts to multiple parts distributed over the vehicles. The use share of magnesium , another CRM used for lightweight parts and in aluminium alloys, is expected to increase significantly, with an annual growth of 9.5% from 2020 to 2025 
 74 
 . 
 The uptake of recycled materials like plastics, steel and aluminium would be largely left to voluntary initiatives by individual economic actors. P lastics materials in vehicles is expected to represent around 200 kg on average per light-duty vehicle (13% of the total weight of an average EV). Currently, the level of (post-consumer) recycled plastics in cars is limited to 2.5% and little progress on this is expected without regulatory intervention in the next years , so that the automotive sector would remain a major user of virgin plastics across the EU industries 
 75 
 . 
 The problems linked to the waste stage of the life cycle of vehicles will remain. Under a baseline scenario, around 10 million passenger cars and vans would become ELVs in 2035 , containing 7.6 million tons of steel (and cast iron), 1.3 million tons of aluminium, 175 thousand tons of copper and brass, 250 thousand tons of glass and 1.6 million tons of plastics. The dismantling and recycling sector would continue to focus on materials and parts which are profitable, and, in the absence of incentives or regulatory requirements , the quantity of recyclates f rom materials which are difficult to remove or recycle (especially plastics, glass, CRMs, textiles, composite materials) will not increase . Without incentives , the quality of recyclates would not improve either , hampering their uptake in new production and ultimately prevent ing the design and production of vehicles to become more circular. Electric vehicles are expected to represent up to 35 % of ELVs by 2035 
 76 
 . The costs per vehicle for dismantling batteries and e-drive motors are high and require sizeable investments in new skills and equipment (e.g., handling and storage of batteries). Most CRMs in EVs risk therefore to continue to be lost during the recycling processes or downcycled due to lack of economies of scale and lack of recycling and further refining capacity . This is likely to be the case for rare earths magnet materials diluted in the ferrous ELV stream or for other CRMs like magnesium or silicon to be found in mixed unsorted ELV steel and aluminium fractions. 
 A lack of new policy intervention would result in considerable losses of resources, including of CRMs, with significant impacts on the environment and the EU economy and a missed opportunity to put the automotive sector on a path to circularity, at a moment where the shift to electrification is driving profound changes in its business and production models. 
 Finally, a side effect to the shift to EVs might be the development of the market for second-hand vehicles, which are more affordable than new EVs. This could in turn boost the demand for used spare parts and provide incentives for the whole automotive supply chain to increase re-use and remanufacturing. 
 The problem of missing vehicles was identified in 2010 and has not been successfully addressed since then, despite a series of soft law initiatives and individual measures taken by some Member States. Without policy intervention addressing the drivers of this problem, it is anticipated that the problems with illegal and informal activities and loss of resources will continue at similar levels . Despite efforts by some Member States, it is expected that the number of missing vehicles will amount to approximately 3.2 million in 2035. By 2035, it is estimated that over one million of old, used, non-roadworthy vehicles would be exported annually from the EU to third countries, mostly in Africa, non-EU central Europe and central Asia, exposing populations in destination countries to air pollution and road safety problems. It could be that the implementation of new import requirements by receiving countries leads to a reduction in the volume of exported used vehicles from the EU; in the absence of international harmonised standards on this point and in view of limited enforcement capacities in importing countries to control shipments of used vehicles, this reduction is expected to be of a small magnitude. 
 Finally, keeping a large amount of road vehicles outside the scope of the ELV and 3R t ype -approval legislation would mean that the design, production and end-of-life treatment of these vehicles would continue to operate on a ‘ business as usual ’ scenario with limited integration of circularity considerations, no guarantee that the vehicles are managed in a sustainable manner when they reach the end of their life, and losses of resources not re-used or recycled. In 2030, the number of end-of life motorcy c les would amount to ap proximately 1. 6 million units, the number of end-of-life lorries to approximately 265 , 000 units and the number of end-of-life buses to approximately 30 , 000 units 
 77 
 . T his represent s 5 million tons of materials by 2030. T hese vehicles (especially lorries and buses) will use a growing quantity of CRMs , in order to comply with the latest CO 2 emission performance 
 78 
 and air emissi on standards (requiring for example technologies for exhaust gas control, leading to more copper, platinum and palladium), but also due to the electrification or hybridisation of some models (requiring lithium batteries and the use of permanent magnets containing rare earth elements in e-drive motors ) and the shift of other models to hydrogen-powered technologies (with the associated use of fuel cell s for which platinum plays an essential role as a catalyst element) 
 79 
 . Voluntary actions by some economic operators might slightly increase the contribution of these sectors to the circular economy, but there would be no leverage at the EU level to use this potential to its full extent. It is likely that Member States would increasingly adopt different measures applying to these vehicles 
 80 
 , posing a risk of fragmentation in the internal market . 
 The export of used lorries and buses to third countries could decrease as a result of the implementation of the Euro VI standard 
 81 
 which necessitates that heavy-duty vehicles put on the EU market after 2013 are equipped with advanced aftertreatment technologies which require the use of high-quality fuels and reagents, especially for diesel-powered vehicles (i.e. diesel exhaust fluid or AdBlue) which may not be widely available in a number of importing countries. If it materialises, this decrease would lead to a corresponding increase in the number of vehicles becoming waste in the EU, but would still not guarantee that the exported used vehicles are roadworthy upon export. It should be noted that the impact of the implementation of Euro VI norms in the EU on the level of export of used vehicles is likely to be much higher for lorries than for M1-N1 vehicles: the practical totality used lorries exported from the EU are diesel vehicles which, when equipped to comply with Euro VI norms, may not function properly in countries which do not have the same the fuel standards and cannot supply these lorries with the required technologies and urea. The impact is less clear on the export of used M1-N1 vehicles as they can continue to be driven with lower fuel quality (albeit being much more pollutant than compl iant vehicles). 
 Overall, the problems described in section 2 will increase in severity in the future. Without simultaneous regulatory intervention in all above areas at the same time, the automotive sector will increasingly depend on supply of primary raw materials, including CRMs, with a significant environmental footprint at extraction and processing stages. 
 5.2 Description of the policy options 
 As displayed in Figure 2 , t his impact assessment presents and analyses policy options designed to attain each of the five specific objectives described in Section 4.2 . For each of these specific objectives, the impact assessment analyses three policy options (A, B and C) , which are specifically addressing the objective in question , except for Policy options 5A to 5C which contain supporting measures for the attainment of different objectives and therefore serve to attain several of them 
 82 
 . 
 Figure 2 - Policy options and specific objectives 
 1. Policy option s 1 A, 1B and 1C are designed to meet specific objective 1 - ‘ Design circular ’ ; 
 2. Policy option s 2 A, 2B and 2C are designed to meet specific objective 2 - ‘ Use recycled content ’ and include requirements for car manufacturers to incorporate minimum amounts of recycled materials in new vehicles ; 
 3. Policy option s 3 A, 3B and 3C are designed to meet specific objective 3 - ‘Treat better’ and aim to improve the management of waste from ELVs and to support the market for re-used and remanufactured parts; 
 4. Policy option s 4 A, 4B and 4C are designed to meet specific objective 4 - ‘Collect more’ and aim at higher collection rates of ELVs ; 
 5. Policy option s 5 A, 5B and 5C p rovide appropriate financial and organisational incentives to support the implementation of the other policy options ; 
 6. Policy option s 6 A, 6B and 6C are designed to meet specific objective 5 ‘ Cover more vehicles’ and improve circularity for the vehicles currently outside the scope of the ELV and 3R type-approval legislation . 
 The options are based on a comprehensive list of 52 potential policy measures listed in Table 1 , which are extracted from the evaluations of the existing legislation, and input from Member States and stakeholders as described in more detail in Annex 2 . They also take account of the suggestions provid ed in the Fit for Future Platform (F4F) opinion , which can be found in Annex 5 
 83 
 . A detailed descr iption of each measure presented below can be found in Annex 7. 2 for selected measures and Annex 7.3 for discarded measures, as well as references to the underlying information in the supporting study. Table 1 includes discarded measures (marked with an X) for which the reasoning is provided in Section 5.3, planned entry-into-force dates in the second last columns and whether measures are included in the final preferred option as well be substantiated later in Section 8.1 to avoid repetition of the same table. 
 Table 1 Overview of all measures considered 
 Policy Options 
 # 
 Measures 
 (all implementing dates are specified as +x yrs from entry-into-force) 
 EIF* 
 Pref.* 
 PO1 – 
 Design Circular 
 1A 
 M1 - Ensure that new 3RTA rules provide for a proper implementation of circularity requirements for new vehicle types 
M2 - Empowerment for the Commission to develop a refined methodology to determine compliance with 3R-requirements 
 M3 - Provision of basic dismantling information to ELV treatment operators 
 M4a - Declaration on substances of concern verified by 3R type-approval authorities 
 M5a - Restrictions of substances under the revised ELV Directive (analysed separately in Annex 9) 
 +1 
 +3 
 +3 
 +3 
 +1 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 N 
 N 
 1B 
 Includes measures M1,M2,M3 of PO1A. 
 M4b - Mandatory declaration on recycled content of plastics, steel, aluminium 
 M5b - Restrictions of substances under REACH and other existing legislation (analysed separately in Annex 9) 
 M6 - Obligation for vehicle manufacturers to develop circularity strategies 
 M7 - Design requirements for new vehicles to facilitate the removal of components 
 +5 
 +8 
 +3 
 +6 
 Y 
 N 
 Y 
 Y 
 1C 
 Includes measures M1-M3, M6,M7 of PO1A and PO1B. 
 M4c - Mandatory declaration on recycled content for materials, other than plastics, including CRMs, steel, aluminium 
 M5c - Hybrid approach: maintenance of current restrictions under ELV with new restrictions under REACH ( analysed separately in Annex 9) 
 M8 - Establishment of a digital Circularity Vehicle Passport 
 +5 
 +8 
 +7 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 Discarded PO1 
 M34 - Voluntary pledges campaign to increase circularity 
 M35 - Preparation of non-binding guidelines to improve circularity 
 M36 - Obligatory due diligence requirements for materials used in vehicles 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 PO2- 
 Use Recycled Content 
 2A 
 M9a - Mandatory recycled content targets for plastic used in vehicles - 6% recycled plastics content by 2031, 10% by 2035 at fleet-level, of which 25% of recycled material from closed loop production, calculation and verification rules at +2 yrs 
 M10a – Empower the Commission to set a mandatory recycled content target for steel, including calculation and verification rules at +3 yrs, based on a dedicated feasibility study, application to newly type approved vehicles at +7 yrs 
 +6 
 +7 
 N 
 Y 
 2B 
 M9b - Recycled plastics content: 25% in 2031 for newly type-approved vehicles only, of which 25% from closed loop production, calculation and verification rules 
 M10b - Steel recycled content: 20% in newly type-approved vehicles, calculation and verification rules 
 +6 
 +7 
 Y 
 N 
 2C 
 M9c - Recycled plastics content: 30% in 2031 for newly type-approved vehicle only, of which 25% from closed loop production, calculation and verification rules 
 M10c - Steel recycled content: 30% in newly type-approved vehicles, of which 15% from closed loop, calculation and verification rules 
 M11- Empower the Commission to set a mandatory recycled content targets for other materials (aluminium alloys, CRM), feasibility study +3 yrs, target levels, calculation and verification rules +5 yrs, application to newly type approved vehicles >7 yrs 
 +6 
 +7 
 >7 
 N 
 N 
 Y 
 Discarded PO2 
 M37 - Higher than 30% of recycled content target for plastic of in 2031 
 M38 - Recycled content targets for copper 
 M39 - Recycled content targets for glass 
 M40 - Recycled content targets for rubber/ tyres 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 PO3- 
 Treat Better 
 3A 
 M12- Aligning the definition of recycling (at EIF) and aligning the calculation methodology for recycling rates (+3 yrs) with other waste legislation 
 M13a - Mandatory removal of certain parts/components prior to shredding to encourage their recycling or re-use, ‘list A’ 
 M14a - New definition of ‘remanufacturing’ (at EIF) and new monitoring requirements (+3 yrs) for (preparing for) re-use/ remanufacturing 
 M16a - Ban on the landfilling of automotive waste residues from shredding operations 
 +3 
 +3 
 +3 
 +3 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 3B 
 Includes all measures of PO3A (cumulative) 
 M13b - Mandatory removal of longer list of components, including those that contain a high concentration of valuable metals or CRMs, ‘list B’ 
 M14b – Market support for the use of spare parts 
 M15b – Recycling targets for plastics – 30% at 5 yrs EIF. Calc rules +2 yrs EIF 
 M16b – Ban on mixed shredding of ELVs with WEEE and packaging waste 
 +3 
 +3 
 +5 
 +3 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 3C 
 Includes all measures of PO3A and PO3B (cumulative) 
 M13c – Mandatory removal of additional components, ‘list C’ 
 M15c – Glass – 70% recycling as container glass quality or equivalent. 
 M16c – Setting requirements on Post Shredder Technologies (PST) to improve the quantity and quality of metal scrap recovered from ELVs 
 +5 
 +5 
 +5 
 N 
 N 
 N 
 Discarded PO3 
 M41 – setting specific recycling targets for metals 
 M42 – setting specific recycling targets for non-metal materials 
 X 
 X 
 PO4 – 
 Collect More 
 4A 
 M17a – Reporting by Member States on “missing vehicles”, vehicle registrations, the import and export of used vehicles, incentives to encourage delivery to an ATF and penalties 
 M18 - Obligations for dismantlers /recyclers to check and report on ELVs/ CoDs 
 M19a - Setting minimum requirements for sector inspections and enforcement action (including non-binding Correspondents Guidelines No9) 
 +3 
 +3 
 +1 
 N 
 Y 
 Y 
 4B 
 M17b - Setting fines for the ELV sector if an ELV is sold to illegal dismantlers and for dealers (and electronic platforms) dealing with dismantled (used) spare parts from non-authorised facilities. 
 M19b - Clearer definition of ELVs to ensure that there is a better distinction between used vehicles and ELVs (binding CG9) 
 M20 - Improving the information contained in national vehicle registries and making them interoperable 
 +3 
 EIF 
 +5 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 4C 
 M19c - Provide or making available information on vehicle identification and roadworthiness to customs authorities (VIN) 
 M21 - Export requirements for used vehicles linked to roadworthiness 
 +4 
 +7 
 Y 
 Y 
 4D 
 Includes measures M17b,M18,M19a-c,M20,M21of PO4A, PO4B and PO4C (cumulative) 
 +3 
 Y 
 Discarded PO4 
 M43 - Establish a mandatory collection target of ELVs based on the reporting obligations on the national vehicle market 
 M44 - Voluntary campaigns on export of ELVs incl. waste shipment correspondents’ guidelines No9 on distinction ELVs and second-hand vehicles 
 M45 – Establishing a central EU vehicle registration database 
 M46 - Exchange of Member States on the implementation of incentives supporting effectiveness of the Certificate of Destruction (CoD) 
 M47 - Support / software interfaces to international notification system 
 M47a – Setting threshold for age and emission for the export of all used vehicles from the EU to third countries 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 PO5 – 
 EPR 
 5A 
 M22 - Requirement for the Member States to establish collective or individual EPR schemes, incl. monitoring compliance costs and minimum financial obligations 
 M23 - Reporting obligations for producers 
 +3 
 +3 
 Y 
 Y 
 5B 
 Includes measures M22, M23 of PO5A (cumulative) 
 M24 - Harmonised modulation of EPR fees 
 M25 - Transfer of the EPR fees/ guarantees (cross-border EPR) 
 +5 
 +3 
 Y 
 Y 
 5C 
 Includes measures M22-M25 of PO5A and PO5B (cumulative) 
 M26 – Setting up national deposit refund schemes 
 M27 - Harmonised GPP criteria (voluntary) 
 +5 
 +5 
 N 
 N 
 Discarded PO5 
 M48 - Establishment of an EU wide EPR scheme 
 M49 - European-wide deposit refund scheme supervised by a single European body 
 M50 - Collection of vehicles at holder’s premises and abandoned vehicles free of charge for the last holder 
 X 
 X 
 X 
 PO6 – 
 Cover more vehicles 
 6A 
 M28 - Provision of information to dismantlers and recyclers 
 +5 
 Y 
 6B 
 Includes measure M28 of PO6A (cumulative) 
 M30a - Mandatory treatment of end-of-life L3e-L7e-category vehicles, lorries (N2,N3) and buses (M2,M3) and trailers (O) at ATFs + CoD 
 M30b - Export requirements for used vehicles linked to roadworthiness for lorries (N2,N3) and buses (M2,M3) and trailers (O) 
 M31b - Minimum EPR requirements for end-of-life L3e-L7e category, lorries (N2,N3) and buses (M2,M3) and trailers (O) 
 M32 - Review clause on the regulatory extension of 3RTA scope to new vehicles 
 +5 
 +5 
 +5 
 +8 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 Y 
 6C 
 Includes measures M28,M30a-b,M31b of PO6A and PO6B (cumulative) 
 M31c - Full application of EPR and advanced economic incentives 
 M33 - Full scope application of the new 3RTA and end-of-life treatment requirements to additional vehicle categories 
 >7 
 >7 
 N 
 N 
 Discarded PO6 
 M51 - Extension of new requirements to special purpose, multistage vehicles and vehicles produced in small series 
 M52 - A full regulatory 3RTA scope extension to all vehicle categories 
 X 
 X 
 * Entry-into-force of the Regulation; Pref. is preferred option, see Section 8.1 
 ** Included in the preferred option, Y = YES, N = NO, See Section 8.1, X = Discarded, See Section 5.3 
 5.2.1 P olicy O ption s 1 A, 1B and 1C (related to specific objective 1 ‘design circular’ ) 
 PO1A , PO1B and PO1C are designed to meet the specific objective 1 ‘Design Circular’ , with an increasing level of ambition. These options are cumulative (i.e., PO1B = PO1A + additional measures; PO1C = PO1B + additional measures). 
 “ PO1A - Better compliance verification ” includes first the adaptation of 3R type - approval process to the new Framework Regulation on type approval and market surveillance 
 84 
 , incl uding the possibility to perform c onformity of p roduction and market surveillance tests. It includes the possibility to recall vehicles , withdraw type - approval certificates and sanction manufacturers in case of non-compliance (M1) . It includes a n empowerment for the Commission , within 3 years , to review the calculation methodology on how vehicles manufacturers should demonstrate compliance with their obligations on recyclability and re-usability of new vehicles . This could be do ne through supporting a change to the current ISO standard on this point, or through the development of standards at EU level , a nd would be preceded by an impact assessment. (M2) . PO1A also requires manufacturers to provide treatment operators and consumers, through existing platforms, with detailed and user-friendly repair, reuse and safe dismantling instructions (M3) and the location of the parts/components in their vehicles containing CRMs 
 85 
 . See Annex 7.2.1 for more details. 
 “ PO1B – Circularity strategy” contains the measures in PO1A , with additional requirements for vehicle manufacturer s to develop a specific circularity strategy for each new vehicle which is type-approved (“type-specific strategy”) . The strategy woul d foster cooperation between vehicle manufacturers and actors in the dismantling and recycling sectors . The objective of th is “ type-specific strategy ” would be for vehicle manufacturers to demonstrate how they will follow-up on their obligations to ensure that the requirements on re-usability, recyclability and recoverability for this vehicle are met , with a particular focus on materials such as CRMs , for which no recycling technology is currently available at commercial scale or that need to be removed prior to shredding . The findings from the strategy should be used to inform the recycling/dismantling sector , as well as by the vehicle manufacturer to improve the circular design of future vehicles . This strategy should contain a nontechnical summary which should be publicly available. To provide transparency and allow for monitoring of the progress made by the sector toward circularity , the Commission will establish regular reports on circularity in the automotive sector , drawing notably from these strategies (M6) . In addition to these measures, PO1B includes provisions on design for dismantling and recycling , especially a requirement that batteries , electric drive motors from EVs and other CRM-containing parts/components are designed in such a way that professional dismantlers can remove them safely without excessive costs (M7). This also includes a n empowerment for the Commission to develop standards or specific requirements on the design for dismantling and recycling of selected parts or components from vehicles, especially those made of plastics or containing CRMs , to be adopted within 6 years after the adoption of the new legislation. Additionally, v ehicle manufacturers are requested to provide e vidence of the share of recycled content ( plastics and steel , but also aluminium and copper ) used in each vehicle type as relevant and necessary for the attainment of the objectives of the future legislation 
 86 
 (M 4 b) . Finally, PO1B clarifies tha t all new restrictions of substances in vehicles , due to reasons related primarily to their chemical safety, will be carried out un der REACH 
 87 
 or, for the specific case of substances in batteries used in vehicles , under the new Batt eries Regulation 
 88 
 . It addresses the call to ensure a legal coherence , as highlighted in F4F opinion 
 89 
 . Under this policy option the existing restriction s on lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium and cadmium in vehicles, as well as their specific exceptions in Annex II , remain with enhanced provisions 
 90 
 under the new EL V Regulation with a planned reassessment , at 8 years, of their potential full take-up by REACH (M5) . See Annex 7.2.1 for more details. 
 PO1C: Circularity Vehicle P assport for circular vehicles : PO1C builds on PO1B and includes in addition the requirement that each vehicle need s to be accompanied by a digital Circularity Vehicle Passport (M8) , contain ing information provided by the manufacturer on the composition of vehicles and its components , relevant for repair , maintenance , dismantling, re-use, remanufacturing and recycling as a single entry for consumers and treatment operators . This development responds to the suggestion of the F4F opinion and is fully consistent with the corresponding provisions that are included in the proposal for Battery Regulation (battery passport) 
 91 
 , the ESPR proposal (product passport 
 92 
 ) and the proposal for the Euro 7 standard ( Environmental Vehicle Passport 
 93 
 ) . As part of the digital information, recycled content levels for all should be declared allowing for verification of manufacturer ’s claims (M 4c ) to monitor actual decarbonisation results as explained in 5.2.2 and Annex 7.2.2 in more detail . Th e Commission would be tasked to develop the technical features of this passport within 7 years from entry into force of the new legislation , ensuring further consistency with other similar initiatives under development in the ESPR framework and the Euro7 regulation. See Annex 7.2.1 for more details. 
 5.2.2 Policy Option s 2 A, 2B and 2C (relat ed to specific objective 2 ‘use recycled content’) 
 PO2A , PO2B and PO2C target the specific objective 2 ‘use recycled content’ , with an increasing level of ambition. These options are alternative and not cumulative. 
 In view of the low recycling and recycled rates of plastics from ELVs, th ese option s would have a focus on recycled content for plastics , but also address recycled content for metals (steel, aluminium, CRM s ) . Only recyclates from post-consumer waste 
 94 
 would be eligible to be accounted for the target s presented below . I ncreasing pre-consumer (or post-industrial) recycled content does not contribute as much to decarbonisation and scrap quality improvement as post-consumer recycled content. Due to lower costs and higher quality of pre-con sumer content, the likelihood it is recycled is much higher than for post-consumer and basically part of the baseline as manufacturers are increasingly incorporating more. The proposed targets would only apply to new M1 and N1 vehicle types 
 95 
 entering the EU market and excluding L3e-L7e categor y vehicles, lorries, buses and trailers not covered by the current ELV Directive. A specific methodology for the calculation and verification of recycled content for plastics would also be established, similar to what is implemented or in development in other legislative proposals 
 96 
 . This is especially relevant to distinguish the differences in average carbon footprint of post- versus pre-consumer waste and to establish a harmonised and consistent mass-balance approach for fair accounting of recycled content volumes . In the case of plastics, this is required to address future developments in chemical recycling 
 97 
 . This does not jeopardise setting a target level as it incentivises mechanical treatment first . With c hemical recycling maturing, t here is possibly upwards potential in the future when chemical recycling is more mature to deal more polluted and mechanically difficult to recycle plastics as specified in the JRC study. See Annex 7.2.1 for more details. 
 PO2A includes a requirement for recycled content targets for plastics 
 98 
 in new vehicle s of at least 6% of the overall plastics contained in the vehicle fleet by 2031 , and 10% by 2035 (M9a) 
 99 
 , of which 25% of recyclates originates from closed loop recycling from ELVs. PO2A includes a n empowerment allowing the Commission to lay down a future target for recycled content for steel for newly type approved vehicles 3 years after entry into force of the Regulation, based on a dedicated feasibility study particularly focusing on the determining an appropriate target level . The study will investigate i) the current and forecasted availability of steel recycled from post-consumer sources of steel waste; ii) the current share of post-consumer waste in various steel semi-products and intermediates used in vehicles; iii) the potential uptake of post-consumer recycled steel by manufacturers in vehicles to be type-approved in the future; and iv) t he relative demand of the automotive sector in comparison to the demand for post-consumer steel waste of other sectors. T he necessary calculation and verification rules should be laid down at the same time . Actual targets would start to apply 7 years after entry into force of the Regulation (M10a). Under PO2A , no other mandatory recycled content targets for other materials would be set, but a mandatory declaration regarding the share of recycled materials embedded in new vehicle types at type-approval stage (see M4b for the declaration to this point). 
 PO2B includes mandatory recycled content targets for plastics in new ly type-approved vehicles of 25 % , of which 25% from closed loop ( M9b ) . This would represent an annual growth of 30% until 203 1 compared to the average baseline in 202 2 
 100 
 . The target for plastic would apply from 6 years after into force of the Regulation. PO2B would set a mandatory recycled content target for steel at 20% for newly type approved vehicles in the Regulation with the target to be achieved 7 years after entry into force. A review clause is foreseen in case supply and demand of steel is rapidly increasing or decreasing as material choices may be subject to change (M10b). 
 PO2C includes mandatory recycled content targets for plastics in new ly type-approved vehicles of 30% of recycled content of which 25% from closed loop 
 101 
 (M9c) . PO2C would further include a recycled content target for steel of 3 0% for newly type approved vehicles , including a 15% closed loop percentage (M10 c ). In addition, the Commission would be (i) tasked to assess the desirability, feasibility and impacts of setting out recycled content targets in new vehicles for other materials, especially aluminium alloys, copper and CRM s such as rare earth elements or magnesium (M11), and (ii), based on a feasibility study , empowered to set out recycled content targets for the materials in question. The study shall investigate both technical limitations in supply and demand similar to the feasibility study for steel and focus additionally at the wider economic viability , technical and scientific progress, including changes in the availability of recycling technologies concerning the type of materials recycled; their material specific recycling rates and investigate the risk of disproportionate negative impacts on the affordability of vehicles containing these other materials derived from post-consumer recycled content. Th is feasibility study is planned 3 years after entry into force. 
 5.2.3 Policy Option s 3 A, 3B and 3C (related to specific objective 3 ‘treat better”) 
 PO3A , PO3B and PO3C target the specific objective 3 ‘Treat better’ , with increasing levels of ambition. These options are cumulative. 
 PO3A modernises the current provisions of the ELV Directive to improve clarity and enhance the quality of the treatment of waste . The first element is aligning the ELV Directive with the more recent and stricter definition of recycling used in other sectoral waste legislation ( M12 ) which explicitly excludes backfilling 
 102 
 . A clearer methodology for the calculation of recycling rates would also be established, similar to what is implemented or in development in EU law and ensuring that what is accounted as “recycled” only includes materials which are effectively recycled and not just collected for recycling. As a supporting element , a ban on the landfilling of the residues from shredding operations ( “ automotive shredder residue ” or ASR ) would be included (M16a) 
 103 
 to ensure increased metal and plastics recovery and use of remaining non-inert material s for energy recovery . The option would also clarify the obligation ( currently unclear in the ELV Directive ) that some parts and components 
 104 
 are to be removed prior to the shredding phase, as to facilitate high quality recycling or re-use (M1 3 a ) . Finally, to support reuse and remanufacturing of spare parts , a definition of remanufacturing (including conditions for warranty) would be introduced in the new legislation, as well as clearer instructions for reporting on the level of re-use and remanufacturing from ELVs ( M14a ) . All these measures follow the suggestions provided in the F4F opinion focussing on retrieving higher volume and quality of secondary materials from the automotive sector 
 105 
 . See Annex 7.2.3 for more details. 
 PO3B : Th is Policy Option contains the measures in PO 3 A and , in addition , new enhanced measures to promote the re-use and recycling of relevant metals, plastics and certain CRMs . The list of parts/components to be removed prior to shredding (mentioned in P03A ) would be extended with parts and components with high concentration s of valuable materials or CRM s ( M13b ) 
 106 
 . A derogation to this removal requirement would apply if evidence can be provided by the dismantlers that the materials/ parts/components will be separated with the same efficiency as manual dismantling/ semi-automated disassembly by post shredding technologies (PST) . For monitoring purposes, Member States are to report on established and used capacities of PST plants. The option also foresees that incentives should be put in place to support the market for re-used and remanufactured parts , b uilding on legislation and best practices in some Member States 
 107 
 ( M14b ) . T o imp rove warranty conditions of used spare parts, information on their origin should be made mandatory as a condition for their sales (i.e., through the provision of the VIN number of the ELV the parts come from). 
 To boost plastic recycling and ensure a sufficient supply of recyclates to meet the demand for recycled plastics in vehicles (see PO2), a specific plastic recycling target 
 108 
 of 30% by 2031 would be established ( M15b). To ensure improved quality of steel and aluminium scraps from ELVs, a ban on the mixing of ELV scraps with WEEE scraps ( such as white goods and refrigerators ) and packaging waste (such as aluminium cans) would be established for shredders (M16b) , reduc ing (copper) impurities and improv ing traceability notably for the closed loop share of automotive plastics recycling 
 109 
 . See Annex 7.2.3 for more details. 
 PO 3 C contains the measures in PO3B and, in addition, specifically targets higher quality of recycling for specific materials . Additional components and novel lightweight materials would be added to the list of parts/components to be removed prior to shredding ( M13c ) 
 110 
 . For glass, a material specific recycling target of 70% would be set, accompanied with quality criteria to ensure that only recyclates to container glass or equivalent quality are accounted towards the recycling target ( M15c). The Commission would be required within 5 years to develop specific and additional requirements to improve the efficiency of post-shredder treatment (PST) operations by setting minimum quality standards (M16c). This may be needed in case novel sorting technologies for aluminium , magnesium or CRM s are insufficient . See Annex 7.2.3 for more details. 
 5.2.4 Policy Option s 4 A, 4B , 4C and 4D (related to specific objective 4 ‘collect more’) 
 PO4A , PO4B and PO4C target the specific objective 4 ‘Collect more’ , with different policy strategies and scope. PO4D is a cumulative combination of both the collection and export measures under PO4A , PO4B and PO4C . See Annex 7.2.4 for more details. 
 PO 4 A focuses on enhanced reporting and enforcement of existing rules . Member States are required to keep better track of their national vehicle fleets and ELVs by mandatory annual reporting on the number vehicles registered, de-registered, treated as ELVs and shipped outside the Member State of registration ( M17a ) 
 111 
 . To facilitate better traceability, a new obligation would be established for dismantlers to issue a certificate of destruction (CoD) for each ELV treated and report it digitally to the competent authorities of their Member State, and for shredders to only accept ELVs with a corresponding CoD and then to notify final destruction to the same competent authorities (M18). This is in line with the suggestions from the F4F platform which stressed that the delivery and registration of CoD nee d to be improved 
 112 
 . Member States are encouraged to exchange best practices on the use of incentives to achieve higher ELV collection numbers 
 113 
 . To strengthen enforcement, there is a definition of minimum requirements for sector inspections and enforcement actions ( M19a ) . Finally, reporting on sanctions applied by the Member States with respect to violations of the rules set out in the future legislation is added to the national reporting requirements ( M17a). 
 PO 4 B provides new measures designed to i mprove exchange of information between Member States on missing vehicles and to foster harmonised enforcement . With regard to the exchange of information between Member States , PO4B consists in provisions to ensure that Member States (i) provide additional information in their national vehicles register s on elements which are necessary to track de-registered vehicles and ELVs 
 114 
 and (ii) provide access through digital means to their national registers to all other Member State competent authorities to improve traceability (M20) 
 115 
 . This would allow for better control of the vehicle status and strengthen the ability of enforcement authorities to carry out more stringent checks on compliance , as stressed in the F4F opinion 
 116 
 . These provisions could be added either in Directive 1999/37/EC on the registration documents for vehicles or in the new legislation on 3R t ype -approval and ELV . For the export of vehicles, the definition of ELVs will be clarified by introducing mandatory criteria which will make it easier to distinguish waste vehicles from used vehicles (M19b) and hence avoid that ELVs are exported as used vehicles. It corresponds with the suggestion of the F4F opinion , acknowledging the illegal export of vehicles outside of the EU being o ne of the major issues with regard to the implementation of the ELV Directive 
 117 
 . Finally, Member States would be required to e stablish appropriate sanctions for breaches of the legislation , in case of selling ELV s to illegal dismantlers, illegal export, illegal sales of used spare parts (M17b ) . 
 PO 4 C : Under this option , n ew provisions would be established with regard to the export of used vehicles outside the EU . First, exporters would be required to make available to customs the vehicle identification number (VIN) and the information on the validity of the roadworthiness status of used vehicles (M19c). Secondly, only those used vehicles which are verified t o be roadworth y would be authorised to be exported to non-EU countries . In addition, the future legislation would foresee development of a complementary control mechanism to check how the EU vehicles comply with the rules on imports of used vehicles imposed by third countries 
 118 
 regarding the environment and road safety. (M21). 
 PO4D: Under this option, all measures (M17 to M21, see Table 1) from PO4A, PO4B and PO4C are combined to most effectively achieve the objective ‘Collect more’ . The combination thus includes incentives and / or penalties to make use of CoDs, improvement of registration and deregistration procedures, better statistics / monitoring on vehicle stock and import / export and the fight against illegal export of ELVs and environment, health and safety problems in the receiving countries. 
 5.2.5 Policy Option s 5 A, 5B and 5C (related to specific objectives 1 to 4) 
 PO5A, PO5B and PO5C aim at establishing economic incentives and organisational arrangements contributing to meeting the first four specific objectives of the initiative to ensure proper implementation. They are cumulative. 
 PO 5 A requires Member States to establish specific E xtended P roducer R espo nsibility (EPR) schemes for vehicles 
 119 
 , aligned with the minimum requirements applicable to other sectoral waste streams , as specified in the Waste Framework Directive 
 120 
 . This means that Member States would require vehicles manufacturers to bear financial and organisational responsibility for the management of the waste stage of the vehicle life cycle , including sorting and treatment operations , in addition to cost coverage which is already part of the requirements of the current ELV Directive . T he F4F opinio n particular ly recommended to focus on proper implementation of polluter pays principle through addressing the mandatory treatment operations that are not economically viable 
 121 
 . Member States would have to establish such schemes, or extend the scope of existing ones, to en sure that vehicle manufacturers provide for advanced measures to guarantee that legal requirements for collection an d treatment of ELVs are achieved ( M22 ) . When it comes to collection of ELVs, this would include digitalisation of reporting of ELVs collected and treated in ATFs and shredders , and dedicated awareness-raising campaigns designed to improv ing the collection of ELV s . When it comes to treatment, vehicle manufacturers will be made responsible for the costs related to the difference between revenues generated by the sale of parts/components /materials resulting from the dismantling/recycling processes and the costs linked to their mandatory dismantling and recycling and other treatment requirements that are net cost negative (M23). P roducer responsibility may be organised collect ively or individually , while setting uniform conditions for the modulation of the financial contributions to avoid distortion of the internal market and to limit administrative burden, where necessary . See Annex 7.2.5 for more details. 
 PO 5 B : Policy o ption 5 B complements the obligation for M ember S tates to establish EPR schemes for ELV with harmonised requirements designed to ensure a uniform and fa i r implementation across the EU single market. To avoid that Member States apply diverging methodologies relating to the responsibilities of the vehicle manufacturers, harmoni sed criteria for the modulation of fee s to be paid by vehicle manufacturers would be set, based on circularity features, such as the weight of a vehicle, the dismantling time for k e y parts/components like batteries , the expected level of recyclability/re-usability , the share of materials preventing high-quality recycling process and the level of recycled content (for metal, plastics and CRM ) ( M24 ) . These elements comply w ith the recommen dation s of the F4F re calling that i ncluding recyclability and durability criteria in vehicle design can facilitate dismantling and lift implementation burden from ATFs 
 122 
 . T ak ing into account the large volume of used cars shipped within the EU and the need for fair cost allocation between economic actors in different Member States , specific requirements are put in place to make sure that vehicle manufacturers contribute to the costs of dismantling and recycling of vehicles which become ELV s in a Member State different from the Member State where it was first registered (“cross-border EPR ”) (M25). See Annex 7.2.5 for more details. 
 PO 5 C includes a dvanced economic incentives to increase the collection of ELV s and promote the market for vehicles manufactured in a circular manner . It gives the discretion for the Member States to establish “ deposit return schemes ” based on the common EU wide criteria, whereby a lump sum of money is given to the last owner of an ELV upon its delivery to an ATFs ( M26 ) . This measure reflects the suggestion of F4F platform 
 123 
 . The second component of this option is the possib ility to establish harmonised Green Public Procurement (GPP ) criteria for the purchase of all vehicles , based on circularity criteria described for PO 5B , and consistent with the Clean Vehicles Directive 
 124 
 ( M27). See Annex 7.2.5 for more details. 
 5.2.6 Policy Option s 6 A, 6B and 6C (related to specific objective 5 ‘cover more vehicles’) 
 PO6A, PO6B and PO6C target the specific objective 6 ‘Cover more vehicles’ with an increasing level of ambition. These options are cumulative. 
 PO 6 A i ncludes a limited extension of the scope of the new legislation to additional categories of vehicles including L3e-L7e -category vehicles , buses (M2,M3) , lorries (N2,N3) and trailers (O) 
 125 
 . The manufacturers of these vehicles would be required to provide information to dismantlers and recyclers , through existing or new platforms , to facilitate depollution , dismantling and recycling of these vehicles ( M28 ) . This shall include at the minimum information on the location of substances of concern , of CRMs as well as instructions on dismantling . T hese requirements would not be applicable to special purpose vehicles, multistage and vehicles produced in small series . See Annex 7.2.6 for more details. 
 PO6B consists of a broader extension of the scope of the new legislation. In addition to the requirements set out in PO6A, it includes a mandatory requirement that end-of-life L3e-L7e category vehicles (which includes motorcycles), lorries, buses and trailers are treated in an ATF , with their dismantling accompanied by a CoD similar to PO4A (M30a). To complement this measure and ensure traceability of used vehicles, used lorries and buses should be subject to similar requirements as for passenger cars with regard to export related requirements based on roadworthiness (M30b). Manufacturers of lorries and buses should also be requested to assume the responsibility for the collection and reporting obligations set for these vehicles (basic EPR scheme) (M31). Finally, a review clause for a phased-in future scope extension is included when more information is available (M32). See Annex 7.2.6 for more details. 
 PO6C: Policy sub-Option 6C includes a full scope extension, with all requirements for M1 and N1 vehicles equally applying to the additional vehicles categories as well in the medium term. This implies full application of the modernised 3R type approval procedure and requirements on reusability, recyclability and recoverability as specified in PO1A-C, the recycled content requirements of PO2A-C, the advanced waste treatment requirements of PO3A-C (M33) and finally, the establishment of EPR schemes , including compliance cost offsetting and the other minimum EPR requirements as under PO5A-C, for L3e-L7e category vehicles, lorries, buses and trailers (M34). See Annex 7.2.6 for more details. 
 5.3 Measures discarded at an early stage 
 These measures were screened to identify those that should be retained for further analysis. Annex 7.3 provides a detailed list of individual discarded measures and the rationale behind their screening out from further consideration. A short summary of discarded measures per intervention area and the reasons for discarding are presented here: 
 Design circular (specific objec tive 1 ) : A range of v oluntary measures, non-binding guidelines and pledges by manufacturers to increase circularity are discarded due to l ow effectiveness and higher results expected from the circularity strategy measure under PO1B. Setting obligatory due diligence requirements for materials used in vehicles is discarded as being covered under the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive (CSDD) 
 126 
 . S etting overall carbon footprint requirements for the entire vehicle is not included, but th is problem is addressed through direct measures in Policy Option 2. See Annex 7.3.1 for more details. 
 Use recycled content (specific objective 2): Setting levels of plastics recycled content above 30% in 2031 is discarded as they are not attainable without serious supply – demand misbalances and disproportionate costs. Setting at this point in time recycled content targets for glass, rubber, CRMs and other metals (such as copper and aluminium) is also discarded, in view of other measures under PO3. However, the possibility to set such targets at a later stage is foreseen in case market failures would not be sufficiently addressed (M11). See Annex 7.3.2 for more details. 
 Treat better (specific objective 3): Setting material-specific recycling rates for steel, aluminium or copper was discarded since the recycling rates are already high (steel, aluminium) and the main concerns are related more to scrap qualities. Here, other measures such as mandatory removal of parts and improving sorting and waste treatment are more effective and indirectly improve copper recycling rates. The same counts for other materials like glass, plastics and specific components such as electronics. Setting recycling targets for CRM was also discarded at this stage, but recycling should be considerably enhanced through other measures, especially relating to the design of new vehicles (obligation to declare location and dismantling information for CRM), improved waste treatment (obligation to remove parts and components containing CRM to ensure their recovery) and EPR schemes (fee modulation taking into consideration amount of CRM and recycled CRM in new vehicles). See Annex 7.3.3 for more details. 
 Collect more (specific objective 4): A range of voluntary measures are discarded due to low expectations on their effectiveness, important feasibility challenges, subsidiarity reasons or legal obstacles, including the setting of an EU-wide Deposit Refund Scheme (DRS), which would require strict rules for registration and deregistration and be sensitive to fraud. Setting collection targets at Member State level is discarded as other measures are expected to be more directly effective. As an alternative to the requirement for the exporters to non-EU countries to provide the information on the roadworthiness status of the used vehicles, another measure was considered, according to which a maximum age of the vehicle or a minimum EU emission standard would be established for the export of all used vehicles from the EU to third countries. However, such regulatory approach was not followed, as it could have a disproportionate effect of banning all the export of used vehicles, in manner which would not allow to take into account the specific import requirements for the used vehicles, when these are officially applied by the import countries. Instead, it was decided to base the export of used vehicles on the requirement to have a valid ‘roadworthiness’ status in accordance with Directive 2014/45/EU. The assessment showed that this approach is the most effective as it allows to prove whether these vehicles comply with the EU stringent environmental and safety standards. Moreover, such approach would ensure that the vehicles which are exported with the aim to continue their service in third countries, are not of lower quality than those which are authorised to be on the EU public roads See Annex 7.3.4 for more details. 
 Provide appropriate financial and organisational incentives (specific objectives 1-4): Mandatory collection of vehicles at holder’s premises and collection of abandoned vehicles free of charge are discarded as cost-ineffective and not stimulating vehicle owners to hand in vehicles at designated facilities. The option that vehicle manufacturers could set up EU-wide EPR schemes (rather than at national level) was discarded due to (i) subsidiarity constraints, as the organisation of the waste management systems, the relations between waste operators, the vehicle registers and the management of EPR schemes are currently operated at national level (ii) concerns that it would not be politically acceptable by Member States and (iii) lack of EU staff and funds available to set up the required EU instance to manage such a scheme. For more information see the description of this discarded measure M48 in Annex 7.3.5. However, vehicle manufacturers would still have the option to set up individual schemes within the national schemes put in place by Member States (M22). In addition, the Member States would need to make sure that the “cross-border” dimension of the problem (i.e. large number of vehicles dismantled in a Member State different from the one where they were put on the market for the first time) is properly addressed (M25). This would make it easier for vehicle manufacturers to develop an EU-wide approach for their extended responsibility, even when this is based on national EPR schemes. See Annex 7.3.5 for more details. 
 Cover more vehicles (specific objective 5): Extension of the vehicle category scope to special purpose vehicles, multistage vehicles and vehicles produced in small series is discarded as, on the basis of available information the measure appears disproportionate. See Annex 7.3.6 for more details. 
 6 What are the impacts of the policy options? 
 6.1 Methodological considerations 
 The quantification of the impacts of the policy options relies on studies and quantitative models complemented with qualitative assessments for those cases where data is scarce. The information sources include in particular a study by Oeko-Institut 
 127 
 which includes a custom-made impact assessment model for the purpose of this revision , a dedicated report by the JRC on recycled plastic in vehicles 
 128 
 and a JRC study on CRMs in vehicles 
 129 
 . Data on the number and types of vehicles placed on the market are the same as in the Euro 7 impact assessment, complemented by an assessment of the number of vehicles becoming waste, collected and exported annually 
 130 
 . The model computes a variety of policy options individually and the effect of combinations of them for the preferred options proportional to the mass flows involved. Detailed information can be found in Annex 4. To improve robustness of the analysis, the estimated impacts and their underlying assumptions were presented in stakeholder workshops and verified by independent experts, the JRC and concerned stakeholders. In the following sections, the individual tables summarise the main environmental and economic impacts for each of the policy options. The impacts presented are for the year 2035 
 131 
 . 
 For the environmental impacts, avoided greenhouse gas emissions and the amount of materials recovered (at higher quality compared to the baseline) are chosen as the main categories to summarise results. Some of the measures target an improvement in the quality of materials recycled from vehicles and not just an increase in quantity. These different recycling qualities have a financial significance which is captured in the calculation of revenues from recycled material as well environmental benefits which are quantified as far as possible. Data for other years, broken down per vehicle, are available in Annex 8. 
 For economic impacts and how stakeholders are affected, cost and revenue redistributions between operators are taken into account. The main ‘reallocation’ elements are the future value of plastic recyclates from the plastics recycled content, the value of cleaner steel scraps and the revenues derived from dismantled materials at ATFs. The reduced value of dismantled ‘hulks’ is accounted for by reduced payments of shredders to ATFs. Another significant effect relates to the value of vehicles not exported anymore. The impact assessment takes account the effect on prices of vehicles, as additional costs on vehicle manufacturers and other economic operators are ultimately passed on (partially or in full) to consumers. 
 In the tables below, when referring to monetary impacts, the minus (-) symbol is used when referring to a cost (a negative monetary impact) and a plus (+) in case of a revenue (a positive monetary impact). All values are presented as net present values. Economic data presented reflects how costs and revenues are expected to be allocated to various stakeholder, including underlying assumptions and sensitivities. 
 6.2 Environmental impacts 
 6.2.1 Design circular: Improve reusability, recyclability and recoverability, 3R t ype -approval 
 The strength of the 3R type-approval approach is that a vehicle type cannot be placed on the EU market unless it complies with all type approval requirements. The actual benefits of measures to improve recyclability, reusability and recoverability of vehicles are of a mid- or long-term prevention nature when vehicles become waste many years later. It is therefore difficult to quantify the exact environmental benefits and values in the future. Nonetheless, the value of the measures can be compared qualitatively against the current baseline, since past vehicle design choices frequently hinder current recycling possibilities. 
 The general reusability and recyclability of vehicles placed on the market following the PO1A - improved 3R type-approval compliance verification requirements are expected to improve the level of reuse and recycling by about 5% in the long term. PO1B - Circularity Strategy (incl. PO1A measures) will have more immediate effect. The design for dismantling requirements and increased cooperation with recyclers will enhance recycling of increasing shares of lightweight, difficult-to-recycle materials in the medium-term. PO1C – Circularity Vehicle Passport (incl. PO1A and PO1B measures) ensures that necessary reuse and dismantling information to address existing information gaps to match supply and demand is delivered using digital technology. Reuse and recycling rates will increase further in the long term due to repairability requirements on the use of digital keys and interchangeable components. The additional mandatory declaration on the use of recycled content for all materials provides better substantiation of related claims to the consumer, supporting greener vehicle purchase decisions and providing an incentive for further decarbonisation achievements in the supply chains. For substance restrictions, the ‘transfer to REACH’ and the ‘hybrid approach’ will have effectively similar impacts given either ELV, under REACH or in a hybrid approach a comprehensive approach to restrict these substances is introduced. More detailed information can be found in Annex 8.1.1. 
 6.2.2 Use recycled content : increase recycling and decarbonise production for selected materials 
 PO2A – plastic recycled content targets 
 132 
 of 10% in 2035 based on the fleet level create a final demand for recyclates in the automotive industry of 240 kt on s in 2035 
 133 
 . PO2B – targets of 2 5 % 
 134 
 starting in 2031 for newly type-approved vehicles correspond to a n additional demand of recyclates of 71 3 kton s for 2035. This should boost the recycling of plastics from ELVs, as this means that 53 % of ELV plastics recyclates would have to be reintroduced in the automotive sector. PO2C – targets of 30% in 2035 correspond to a demand of recyclates of 872 k tons in 2035 
 135 
 . The target would represent a n effective recycling rate of available ELV plastics of 64 % which poses a supply – demand imbalance risk . The GHG savings linked to PO2B would be 314 k tons of CO 2-eq , and 376 k tons of CO 2- eq for PO2C . 
 For steel, a recycled content target under PO2B and PO2C provide an additional push to integrate higher quality scrap into new vehicles, assuming such scrap becomes available, with roughly 585 ktons of GHG savings in comparison to the baseline for 2035 and 900 ktons towards 2040 for PO2B . Compared to PO2A, PO2B and PO2C would reduce the demand for natural gas, coal and iron ore and increase the demand for electricity by 2035 as displayed in Table 2. The summary of the main environmental impacts for the PO1 and PO2 affecting the design and production stages are visualised in Table 1. For more information see Annex 8.1.2. 
 Table 2 Environmental impacts of Recycled Content targets for plastics and steel, 2035 
 Environmental impacts 
 ( in 2035, annual c ompared to baseline) 
 PO2 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Vehicles placed on market (units) 
 15,025,000 
 Recycled content plastics 
 (JRC study) 
 PO2 plastics 
 10% in 'fleet' in 2035 
 25% of newly 
 TA from 2030 
 30% of newly TA from 2030 
 Design and production 
 Baseline 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Recycled content plastics (kton) 
 123 
 +240 
 +713 
 +873 
 CO2 savings (kton CO2-eq., plastics RC) 
 46 
 +90 
 +314 
 +376 
 Reduced decease incidence PM 
 2 
 +4 
 +13 
 +16 
 Energy savings (GWh) 
 1,161 
 +2,264 
 +7,283 
 +8,740 
 BOE (million Barrel of Oil equivalent saved) 
 1 
 +1.4 
 +4.5 
 +5.4 
 Contribution to the CPA targets 
 1% 
 3% 
 8% 
 9% 
 Recycled content steel 
 PO2 
 steel 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Recycled content steel (kton) 
 1,515 
 0 
 +505 
 +1,212 
 CO2 savings (kton CO2-eq., steel RC) 
 1,754 
 0 
 +585 
 +1,404 
 Reduction in Electricity use (GWh) 
 -776 
 0 
 -259 
 -621 
 Natural gas savings (million m3) 
 45 
 0 
 +15 
 +36 
 Hydrogen savings (ton H2) 
 9,185 
 0 
 +3,062 
 +7,348 
 Coal savings (kton) 
 500 
 0 
 +167 
 +400 
 Iron ore savings (kton) 
 1,808 
 0 
 +603 
 +1,446 
 6.2.3 Treat better: Improve treatment quality and quantity 
 All three options under PO3 bring significant environmental benefits from higher quantities and qualities of recycling. For PO3A , the effect of better implementation of the current Annex I of the ELV Directive has a significant positive effect of about 1 million tons of materials recovered at higher quality , corresponding with 1.5 million tons of CO 2 savings compared to the baseline. In order of magnitude of GHG savings , improved aluminium and steel recycling contribute s the most , followed by the environmental benefits of improved plastics recycling 
 136 
 . PO3B (incl. PO3A) and PO3C (incl. PO3B measures) bring even higher benefits. The increased separation of (cast) aluminium components provides significant gains for PO3B of around 3.7 million tons of CO 2 - eq saved , primarily due to reuse and corresponding aluminium production avoided . Initial assessment for the e-drive motors mandatory removal prior to shredding shows that circa 1 million ELV in 2030 and 5 million ELVs in 2040 will be affected by this provision 
 137 
 , respectively, compared to baseline scenario. Copper recovery from e-drive motors would increase by 97% and would decrease contamination of secondary base metals, hence increasing quality. The mandatory removal and separate recycling of e-drive motors would also thrive the permanent magnet recycling value chain and generate new flows of CRMs for further recycling . It is estimated circa 4.2 kt on of permanent magnet s , including 1.5 kton of REE s, to be available in 2040 for high quality recycling from future EU ELVs. For PO3C , the advanced quality targets provide savings equivalent to 2.9 million tons of CO 2 -eq . 
 The update of the recycling, reuse and remanufacturing definitions proposed in the revision would exclude some recycling processes that yield very-low quality recyclates. A more consistent definition of recycling in particular provides an incentive for the improved recycling of plastics and glass contributing to 600 kton and 200 kton of annual GHG savings respectively. The results are excluding the effect of increased collection from PO4 but already includes the PO5 effect of EPR measures in the last column of Table 3. See Annex 8.1.3 for a detailed assessment per material and other years. 
 Table 3 Environmental impacts of improved treatment quantity and quality, 2035 
 Environmental impacts 
 ( in 2035, annual compared to baseline) 
 PO3 
 PO3A 
 PO3B 
 PO3C 
 Amplification (+ EPR) 
 ELVs treated EU (units, legal & illegal) 
 Baseline 
 9,621,000 
 +2,107,000 
 Recycling stage (kton of material) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Steel (reused and recycled pre-shredder) 
 719 
 +812 
 +1,188 
 +1,457 
 +273 
 Aluminium (reused and recycled pre-shredder) 
 133 
 +99 
 +365 
 +204 
 +84 
 Copper (reused and recycled pre-shredder) 
 11 
 +27 
 +79 
 +54 
 +18 
 Glass (recycled pre-shredder, high quality) 
 22 
 +4 
 +131 
 +131 
 +30 
 Plastics (reused and recycled pre-shredder) 
 84 
 0 
 +125 
 +138 
 +29 
 CRMs (permanent magnet materials) 
 +0.35 
 +0.35 
 +0.35 
 0 
 Improved quality (kton of material) 
 161 
 +381 
 +1,217 
 +1,313 
 +280 
 Recycling stage - GHG savings (kton CO 2 -eq) 
 Baseline 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Steel 
 6,662 
 +597 
 +641 
 +672 
 +147 
 Aluminium 
 14,270 
 +693 
 +1,994 
 +1,309 
 +459 
 Copper 
 318 
 +69 
 +143 
 +76 
 +33 
 Glass 
 13 
 +4 
 +126 
 +126 
 +29 
 Plastics recycling (allocated to PO3) 
 929 
 0 
 +758 
 +661 
 +174 
 EEE (invertor only) 
 139 
 +15 
 +26 
 +36 
 +6 
 GHG savings (kton CO 2- eq.) 
 +1,378 
 +3,688 
 +2,880 
 +848 
 6.2.4 Collect more: Improve collection quality and quantity 
 Under policy options PO4A to PO4C , improved collection of ELVs increases the number vehicles treated at ATFs and reduces extra-EU exports, leading to more higher quality recycling the EU. The cumulative PO4D , which combines all measures from PO4A to PO4C , is the mo st effective as it generates synergies from th is combination , which are higher than a simple addition. The resulting summary of environmental impacts shows significant additional material recovery and corresponding GHG savings. PO4B , with improved enforcement and harmonised national registers, significantly reduces the number of vehicles of unknown whereabouts and improves the quality of treatment at ATFs, resulting in 1.5 million tons of CO 2 -eq from recycling plus 0.1 million tons CO2-eq. from better recovery of air conditioning refrigerants. PO4C , which focusses on export regulatory measures, is expected to save up to 3.2 million tons of CO2-eq from recycling plus 0.2 million tons CO2-eq. from better recovery of air conditioning refrigerants. The CO2 savings take account of the fact that the CO2 emissions generated by the dismantling of old vehicles as waste in the EU and the production of new cars to replace them are offset by the reduction of CO2 emissions achiev ed when taking into consideration the emissions generated , during their use phase, by new ly produced vehicles , compared to much ol d er ones. The highest impacts are achieved with PO4D , a combination of all measures, with savings of 5.6 million tons of CO2-eq. In addition to GHG savings , e liminating the export of non-roadworthy used vehicles from the EU to third countries will decrease the external environmental and heath related costs associated with air pollution 
 138 
 as well as with the informal dismantling of vehicles ( linked for example to improper treatment of waste oil, tyres, refrigerants from air-conditioning systems an d lead-acid batteries , which is a significant source of lead pollution in developing countries 
 139 
 ) in the receiving countries. The measure is likely to lead to changes in the overall vehicle fleet imported in receiving countries: the replacement of old used vehicles with more modern ones w ould lead reduced air pollution and increase road safety. In addition, as the lifetime of modern vehicles is longer than the lifetime of old ones, there would less vehicles becoming waste in the recipient countries 
 140 
 . This would therefore reduce the pollution caused by the unsound treatment of ELVs in the countries concerned 
 141 
 . This will reduce the EU external pollution footprint and support the development of policies and actions supporting a more sustainable , safer and efficient transport system in these countries . More information is available in Annex 7.2.4 under M21. 
 Table 4 Environmental impacts of improved collection, 2035 
 Environmental impacts 
 (in 2035, annual compared to baseline) 
 PO4 
 PO4A 
 PO4B 
 PO4C 
 PO4D 
 Amplification 
 (+EPR) 
 Collection stage (units) 
 Baseline 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 ELVs treated in the EU (legal & illegal) 
 9,620,640 
 +115,624 
 +501,037 
 +1,079,156 
 +1,721,511 
 +321,177 
 to ATFs and CoD (reported) 
 7,630,563 
 +218,401 
 +796,520 
 +1,374,639 
 +2,916,291 
 +385,413 
 treated in the EU (non-reported) 
 1,990,077 
 -102,777 
 -295,483 
 -295,483 
 -1,194,780 
 -359,719 
 Export of used vehicles and ELVs 
 3,226,456 
 -115,624 
 -501,037 
 -1,079,156 
 -1,721,511 
 -385,413 
 Used vehicles + ELV export reduction 
 0.0% 
 3.6% 
 16% 
 33% 
 53% 
 +12% 
 Materials recovered (ktons) 
 8,568 
 +103 
 +446 
 +961 
 +1,533 
 +284 
 Steel/ cast iron 
 7,084 
 +85 
 +369 
 +795 
 +1,268 
 +43 
 Aluminium 
 1,074 
 +13 
 +56 
 +121 
 +192 
 +6 
 Copper/Brass 
 142 
 +2 
 +7 
 +16 
 +25 
 +11 
 Average Plastic 
 268 
 +3 
 +14 
 +30 
 +48 
 +1 
 Platinum 
 30 
 +0 
 +2 
 +3 
 +5 
 +0.3 
 GHG savings recycling (kton CO 2 -eq.) 
 27,850 
 +353 
 +1,513 
 +3,222 
 +5,218 
 +1,132 
 GHG savings refrigerants (kton CO 2 -eq) 
 969 
 +30 
 +113 
 +207 
 +408 
 +56 
 6.2.5 Provide appropriate financial and organisational incentives to improve collection and waste treatment 
 The assessment of the EPR and economic incentives related measures, described in PO5A , PO5B (incl. PO5A) and PO5C (incl. PO5B), is based on their amplifying effect on the measures for recycling (under PO3A - PO3C ) and on collection (under PO4A to PO4C ), and previously displayed in the Tables 3 and 4. The amplifying effect of EPR on the compliance level for collection and recycling is calculated and shows an additional 12% reduction in export of non-roadworthy used vehicles and ELVs, or 385,000 fewer vehicles exported, plus an extra 320,000 units brought to ATFs in the EU at end of life. The combined effect is an additional 284 kton of materials and 1.1 million tons of CO 2 -eq, which includes 56 kton of equivalent CO 2 savings from improved refrigerant recovery. More details are available in Annex 8.1.4 and 8.1.5. 
 6.2.6 Cover more vehicles: Extend the vehicle category scope 
 The main indicator used to assess the environmental and economic impacts of PO6A , PO6B (incl. PO6A) and PO6C (incl. PO6A and PO6B measures) is the number of additional vehicles which would be treated in ATFs in the EU compared to the baseline, as well as the corresponding materials which would be recovered. For the environmental impact assessment, the GHG savings linked to such recovery is then calculated for L3e-L7e category vehicles, buses (M2, M3) and lorries (N2,N3), but not for trailers due to lack of information. For PO6C , the export reduction effect of a full EPR system (M31c) can be determined as well, however, the full scope extension to 3RTA, recycled content targets cannot be quantified (M33). On that basis, the assessment shows that the environmental benefits of PO6A are modest, as it would result in a limited number of additional lorries, buses and L3e-L7e category vehicles dismantled in ATFs compared to the baseline, and of the corresponding materials recycled or re-used. PO6B would provide higher environmental benefits, including 510 ktons (PO6B) and 660 ktons (PO6C) of material reused or recycled at higher quality. This corresponds with 1,1 million respectively 1.4 million tonnes of CO 2eq as GHG savings. This is the result from: 
 (I) the obligation to treat all lorries, buses and L3e-L7e categor y vehicles in ATFs, which would reduce increase the number of vehicles treated by ATFs by 39% and reduce those treated by the informal sector in the EU under less environmentally efficient conditions (M 30a ) . This measure would particularly affect L3e-L7e categor y vehicles ; 
 (II) the new requirements on the export of used lorries and busses, which could lead to a drop in export in non-roadworthy vehicles of up to 19 % and subsequent treatment of these vehicles in ATFs in the EU (M30b) ; 
 (III) the basic requirements for manufacturers of lorries, buses and L3e-L7e categor y vehicles to facilitate collection and reporting on end-of-life vehicles (M31) . 
 The environmental benefits of PO6C are expected to be larger than for PO6B , as PO6C would entail a much broader range of measures affecting the design, type-approval and treatment of lorries, buses and L3e-L7e category vehicles. However, there is insufficient information on parameters (for example on the feasibility to set up recyclability target under the type-approval framework, as well as an overall recycling target for the whole vehicle at end-of-life stage; on current rate and possible increase in the use of recycled materials; on the feasibility to require that a list of “difficult-to-recycle materials” are removed prior to shredding) which are key to calculate the environmental benefits of the measures under PO6C . It is therefore not possible to quantify the additional impacts of M33. 
 Table 5 Environmental impacts of the scope extension, 2035 
 Environmental impacts 
 (2035, compared to baseline) 
 PO6 
 PO6A 
 PO6B 
 PO6C* 
 Scope extension (values in million units) 
 Baseline 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 ELVs (L3e-L7e-category vehicles) 
 1,624,242 
 ELVs (buses, M2,M3) 
 32,972 
 ELVs (lorries and trailers, N2,N3,O) 
 289,992 
 ELVs to ATFs (L3e-L7ecategory vehicles) 
 0 
 Not assessed 
 +487,273 
 +633,454 
 ELVs to ATFs (M2,M3) 
 21,762 
 +2,119 
 +2,754 
 ELVs to ATFs (N2,N3,O) 
 75,398 
 +35,408 
 +46,030 
 ELVs non-reported to ATFs (L3e-L7e) 
 0 
 Not assessed 
 30% 
 39% 
 ELV+ used export reduction (M2,M3) 
 11,211 
 19% 
 25% 
 ELV+ used export reduction (N2,N3,O) 
 214,594 
 17% 
 21% 
 Materials recovered (ktons of materials) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Additional reuse (L3e-L7e, ktons) 
 301 
 Not assessed 
 Additional reuse (M2, M3, ktons) 
 104 
 +31 
 +40 
 Additional reuse (N2, N3,O, ktons) 
 553 
 +166 
 +216 
 Additional recycling (L3e-L7e, ktons) 
 191 
 Not assessed 
 +57 
 +75 
 Additional recycling (M2, M3, ktons) 
 127 
 +38 
 +49 
 Additional recycling (N2, N3,O, ktons) 
 720 
 +216 
 +281 
 Total materials recovered (ktons) 
 1,995 
 +508 
 +661 
 GHG savings (ktons of CO2eq.) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 GHG savings (L3e-L7e, ktons CO2eq.) 
 2,639 
 Not assessed 
 +126 
 +164 
 GHG savings (M2, M3, ktons CO2eq.) 
 1,235 
 +152 
 +178 
 GHG savings (N2, N3,O, ktons CO2eq.) 
 2,055 
 +841 
 +1,094 
 Total GHG savings (ktons of CO2eq.) 
 5,929 
 +1,120 
 +1,436 
 *Excluding impacts for the full scope extension of M33. Only impacts of measure M31c (EPR and collection) are assessed. 
 6.3 Economic impacts 
 6.3.1 Design circular: Improve reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 The estimated operational costs for modernising the 3R type-approval framework of PO1A , excluding administrative costs, are rather limited and assessed qualitatively. The revisions to the 3R-type-approval calculation will make the process somewhat more complex for OEMs and type-approval authorities. Possible sanctions for non-compliance are not included in these estimates. The expected increase in the rate of reuse of certain components means suppliers of new replacement part see a loss of business, while ATFs and remanufacturers will see an increase. Vehicle owners shall benefit from increased supply of spare parts from improved digital marketplaces and less digital keys hampering repair. With a large number of different parts and values, these revenues are not quantified. The costs of improving recyclability of difficult-to-recycle materials and R&D related to the circularity strategies in PO1B (incl. PO1A) are not assessed in detail, but the envisaged cooperation between recyclers and manufacturers is an important improvement, frequently mentioned by a range of stakeholders. Costs for developing the digital Circularity Vehicle Passport are determined at 2 million EUR annually and thus relatively limited under PO1C (incl. PO1A and PO1B measures). It overlaps with existing and new digital platforms that manufacturers are further expanding. Thus, development costs are already assumed for the baseline. For substances, the ‘restriction under REACH and other existing legislation’ and the ‘hybrid approach’ will have overall similar impacts, with a slightly higher impact in terms of administrative burden given the need for automotive operators to familiarise with REACH and its restriction procedures. They hybrid approach is assessed to be that resulting in the highest ease of implementation. More information can be found in Annex 8.1.1. Administrative costs are presented in Section 6.4 and Annex 8.3. 
 6.3.2 Use recycled content : increasing recycling and decarbonis ing production for selected materials 
 The costs and revenues for the plastics and steel recycled content targets are summarised in Table 6 
 142 
 . It is assumed the quality of produced recyclates comply with the technical specifications of manufacturers. This require s investments in recycling technology . The total sum of costs and revenues range approximately from 15 to 49 EUR /vehicle in 2035, depending on the sub-options as well as on expected new price setting of recyclates . Cost s are relatively high in the short term as manufacturers and suppliers will adapt production , carry out the necessary R&D, testing and validation of the new blends and secur ing supply from recyclers . For the targets of PO2B 
 143 
 and PO2C 
 144 
 , in 2035 , the measures would cost 740 respectively 1,170 million EUR but generate a net profit for recyclers of 600 resp ectively 70 million EUR at the same time thus providing an important incentive for secondary markets for raw materials. 
 Table 6 Economic impacts of recycled content targets for plastics and steel, 2035 
 Economic impacts 
 ( in 2035, annual compared to baseline, 
excl. admin costs) 
 PO1 
 PO1A 
 PO1B 
 PO1C 
 Vehicles placed on market (units) 
 Baseline 
 15,025,000 
 Design stage 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Operational costs 3RTA (qualitative) 
 (-) 
 (--) 
 (--) 
 Hazardous substance declaration (qualitative) 
 (o) 
 (o) 
 (o) 
 Production: Recycled content plastics 
 (JRC study) 
 PO2 Plastics 
 PO2A 
 ( PoM 
6-10% ) 
 PO2B 
 ( TA 2030 25% ) 
 PO2C 
 ( TA 2030 
30% ) 
 Recycled content plastics (kton) 
 95 
 +240 
 +713 
 +873 
 Manufacturer and supplier costs 
 0 
 -205 
 -392 
 -739 
 Recycler investments 
 -4 
 -20 
 -69 
 -83 
 Plastics (processing costs) 
 -53 
 -101 
 -284 
 -349 
 Plastics (revenues recyclers) 
 112 
 +216 
 +602 
 +739 
 Production Recycled content steel 
 PO2 
 Steel 
 PO2A 
 PO2B (20% in 2035) 
 PO2C 
 (30% in 2035) 
 Recycled content quality steel (kton) 
 1,515 
 +505 
 +1,212 
 Shredder and sampling costs (HQ steel, M EUR) 
 -4 
 -10 
 Steel industry (cost HQ scrap, M EUR) 
 -33 
 -80 
 Manufacturers (premium RC steel, M EUR) 
 -33 
 -80 
 Shredders (revenues HQ scrap, M EUR) 
 +33 
 +80 
 Steel industry (reduced processing costs, M EUR) 
 +33 
 +80 
 Total costs plastics + steel (all stakeholders) 
 -58 
 -326 
 -816 
 -1,340 
 Total revenues plastics + steel (all stakeholders) 
 112 
 +216 
 +668 
 +899 
 For the recycled content target for steel, the necessary shredder costs for improving ELV steel scrap sampling to ensure quality requirements are estimated at 4 million EUR for PO2B and 1 0 million EUR for PO2C . Further costs for improving quality of treatment , including a ban on mixed treatment and the removal obligations of components are allocated to PO3 . On the costs side, the cost potential is estimated at 66 million EUR , assumed to be split between t he steel industry and automotive manufacturers . The se (avoided) costs do present a n increasing purchasing price for steel producers, which could be covered by lower ETS 
 145 
 costs , estimated conservatively at 132 EUR resp. 156 EUR/ton CO 2eq according to the low scenario of the DG MOVE handbook 
 146 
 . The corresponding GHG reduction is presented in Section 6.2.2. See Annex 8. 1. 2 for more details and assumptions . 
 6.3.3 Treat better: Improve treatment quality and quantity 
 The results of the impact assessment for PO3 are displayed below. The majority of the costs are for the dismantlers and linked to the requirements on removal of parts prior to shredding in PO3A and PO3B ( around 350 million EUR ) , partially compensated by additional revenues from removed materials. Similarly, the recycling definition improvement and ban on the landfilling of the residues from shredding operations of PO3A come with a cost. The costs for removal of CRM relevant components under PO3A are estimated at 65 million EUR by the JRC and further discussed in Annex 15. 2 
 147 
 . The cost- effectiveness of dismantling smaller components under PO3C (including PO3A and PO 3 B measures ) is much lower compared to PO3A and PO3B . The ban on mixed treatment of ELV with other scrap types ( PO3B ) at the same time reduces shredder capacity flexibility leading to extra costs, at the same time, it imp r oves quality of recycling and noticeably the value of ELV steel and aluminium fractions in return. Since this is difficult to quantify and very shredder and M ember S tate specific , the net result is assumed to be cost neutral. It should be noted that the modelling approach focused on manual dismantling 
 148 
 does not allow to quantitatively assess the less costly mechanical recycling scenario, for the PO3B and PO3C in those countries that have sufficient PST capacity . T he PO3C costs are to be regarded ‘ worst-case ’ . 
 There is a substantial shift in costs and revenues between stakeholders for all three policy options. The value of removed materials minus dismantling costs will not be a direct net profit to the ATFs, as shredder companies will pay less for dismantled hulks where significant material value is already removed and subsequent lower treatment costs due to for instance the prior removal of glass. In Section 8.2 and in Annex 8.2.3, these ‘propagations’ of reduced costs and revenues are made explicit per stakeholder, material, component and for other years. 
 Table 7 Economic impacts of improved treatment quantity and quality, 2035 
 Economic impacts 
 ( in 2035, annual compared to baseline) 
 PO3A 
 PO3B 
 PO3C 
 Amplification 
 (+EPR) 
 Treatment (in million EUR, - =cost , + =revenue ) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 ATFs 
 ATF dismantling costs 
 -173 
 -412 
 -401 
 -80 
 ATF additional revenues 
 +34 
 +100 
 +70 
 +21 
 Shredders/PST operators (excl. RC) 
 Shredder costs 
 -347 
 -998 
 -686 
 -230 
 Shredder additional revenues 
 +309 
 +902 
 +634 
 +187 
 Recycling/ End-processing 
 Recyclers costs 
 -140 
 -82 
 -132 
 -1 
 Recyclers additional revenues 
 +68 
 +152 
 +146 
 19 
 Total costs (all stakeholders) 
 -660 
 -1,492 
 -1,219 
 -310 
 Total revenues (all stakeholders) 
 +412 
 +1,153 
 +851 
 +227 
 ATFs and shredders are commonly SME’s, recyclers are regarded large enterprises including plastic recyclers, steel mills and non-ferrous smelters that produce secondary raw materials as ‘commodities’ 
 6.3.4 Collect more: Improve collection quality and quantity 
 Under policy options PO4A to PO4C and the cumulative PO4D , ATFs will benefit from more ELVs diverted to them from illegal operators in the EU and from the limitations regarding the export of used unroadworthy vehicles. Detailed trade and economic information is available in Annex 8.1.4. Car dealers, in particular those specialised in exports outside the EU, would incur lost profits (up to 414 million EUR for PO4D), as the prices for exporting used vehicles are higher than for selling old used vehicles or ELVs in the EU. ATFs would incur net profits of respectively 24, 82, 125 and 308 million EUR, for PO4A to PO4D . Shredders and recyclers will also have additional turnover and profits from more ELVs treated, however as the profit per ton of depolluted and dismantled vehicle is limited, the net effect is low. With a substantial shift in costs and revenues between stakeholders, again the ‘propagations’ of reduced costs and revenues are made explicit for each stakeholder, material, component and other years in Annex 8.2.4 and summarised per vehicle in Section 8.2. 
 Table 8 Economic impacts of improved collection, 2035 
 Economic impacts 
 (in 2035, annual compared to baseline) 
 PO4A 
 PO4B 
 PO4C 
 PO4D 
 Amplification 
 (+EPR) 
 Collection (in million EUR, - =cost , + =revenue ) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Consumers 
 0 
 0 
 -134 
 -142 
 -17 
 Car dealers (export requirements) 
 -27 
 -123 
 -282 
 -414 
 -241 
 ATF profits 
 +24 
 +82 
 +125 
 +308 
 +203 
 Shredder profits 
 +2 
 +7 
 +15 
 +24 
 +14 
 Total costs 
 -27 
 -123 
 -416 
 -556 
 -257 
 Total additional revenues 
 +26 
 +89 
 +140 
 +332 
 +217 
 6.3.5 Provide appropriate financial and organisational incentives to improve collection and waste treatment 
 The economic and governance elements of ELV-specific EPR schemes under PO5A-C will support better cooperation between manufacturers and recyclers to jointly improve both design and treatment of vehicles. The impact of the EPR and economic incentives related measures is presented as an amplifying effect on the measures to meet the specific objectives 1, 3 and 4. The PO5B (incl. PO5B measures) results are already visualised in previous Tables 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 and clearly show the additional benefits of improved governance and financial incentives. Dependent on the choice of new collection and recycling requirements and their additional costs, EPR schemes and producers (and subsequently consumers) will be required to compensate ATFs and shredders for the additional costs incurred to improve recycling quality and compliance. Compared to the baseline, the estimated additional compliance cost offset per ELV ranges between 3 and 33 EUR per ELV in 2035, dependent on the combination of policy options and member state specific price-setting elements that can affect the economic performances of the ATFs, shredders and recyclers. For more details see Annex 8.2.5. 
 6.3.6 Cover more vehicles: Extend the vehicle category scope 
 The information provisions of PO6A would generate moderate costs for manufacturers which would have to provide a set of information to dismantlers and recyclers on the composition of their vehicles and their dismantling. The related administrative costs are specified in Section 7.1. Lorry manufacturers are already used to doing this, so the costs would take form a limited administrative burden, which could be a bit higher for manufacturers of buses and L categories vehicles. This information should on the other hand facilitate and speed up the activities by dismantlers, so reduce their overall costs, although this is difficult to quantify. 
 PO6B (incl. PO6A measures) main economic impacts would be linked to the measures on the export of lorries and buses, with decrease in revenues for (specialised) exporters, but more vehicles to be treated by ATFs in the EU, generating additional turnover for this sector. The requirements to treat lorries, buses and L3e-L7e category vehicles in ATFs would represent extra economic activities for the dismantling sector operating under advanced environmental standards. The costs would take the form of investments to upgrade facilities which currently do not meet the standards to be authorised as a treatment facility. Overall, this impact will more important for operators treating end-of-life L3e-L7e category vehicles, for which the informal sector is more prevalent than for the other types of vehicles. For manufacturers, PO6B would generate limited costs under the form of administrative burden linked to their basic obligations as producers in terms of collection and reporting (Section 7.1). 
 PO6C (incl. PO6A and PO6B measures) would generate important costs for the whole supply chain, in view of the wide changes that it would require for each actor along the supply chains (manufacturers having to ensure at type-approval stage that their vehicles are 85% recyclable and to incorporate recycled plastics; dismantlers having to modernise their practices to ensure removal of parts and materials for re-use and recycling; recyclers having to improve treatment of waste from lorries, buses and L3e-L7e category vehicles (M33)). They cannot fully be quantified however, and only a partial calculation corresponding to measures on EPR and collection is presented below. PO6C would also generate revenues from higher volume and quality of used spare parts and materials sent for recycling. This part of the quantification (M31c) is displayed in Table 9. 
 Table 9 Economic impacts of the scope extension, 2035 
 Economic impacts 
 (2035, compared to baseline) 
 PO6A 
 PO6B 
 PO6C* 
 Scope extension (million units) 
 Lost revenues exporters (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Costs (lost revenue L3e-L7e; M EUR) 
 not assessed 
 Costs (lost revenue M2,M3; M EUR) 
 -2.5 
 -4.4 
 Costs (lost revenue N2,N3,O; M EUR) 
 -48 
 -84 
 ATFs (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Costs 
 not assessed 
 -39 
 -53 
 Revenues 
 +42 
 +55 
 Recyclers (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 Revenues 
 not assessed 
 +39 
 +50 
 Net value scope extension 
 -9 
 -36 
 *Excluding impacts for the full scope extension of M33. Only impacts of measure M31c (EPR and collection) are assessed. 
 6.4 Administrative burden 
 Administrative burden per policy option is included in Section 7.1 in the comparison of options in Tables 10-14. A detailed overview of the administrative burden for all years is provided in Annex 3 per stakeholder affected as well as per measure and split in recurrent and one-off costs and summarised in Annex 8.3 per individual policy option and operator. For PO1C , the 3R calculation and required declaration generally follows existing procedures, with some one-off transition costs totalling 2.57 million EUR. The total recurring administrative burden for the information provision of PO1C is assed at 5.68 million EUR; including the adaptations for the Circularity Vehicle Passport. For plastics recycled content, the certification costs are estimated to be limited to 0.24 million EUR in 2035 for PO2B and thus marginal compared to processing costs. A similar value is expected for the steel recycled content target, following the same approach. The highest costs of roughly 32 million EUR are related to for PO3B and PO3C where ATFs are required to improve reporting over depollution and mandatory removal (roughly 3 EUR/ELV). The recurring costs related to PO4 for collection including EPR in setting up PROs in PO5 range between 35 and 54 million EUR (4 to 6 EUR/ ELV) with an additional one-off cost of 1.35 million EUR. In total, including some administrative costs for the scope extension of PO6 , the total recurring administrative costs range between 72 and 106 million EUR (5 and 7 EUR per new vehicle sold) plus 1.4 to 4.0 million of one-off costs . 
 6.5 Social impacts 
 6.5.1 Job creation 
 An overview of the social impacts is provided in in Section 7.1 in the comparison of options in Tables 9-13. The main impact category is the creation of total jobs, with significant impacts related to the recycled content options with respectively 600, 1,200 and 1,800 jobs for the options PO2A-PO2C for both manufacturers and shredder/PST operators. Second in contribution are the additional jobs related to mandatory removal of components, ranging for 930 jobs for PO3A to over 6,500 jobs for PO3C (including PO3A and PO3B measures) due to long dismantling times of smaller components in case a manual definition of ‘removal’ would be selected. For the collection options PO4A with 330 jobs, PO4B with 1,200 jobs, PO4C with 2,000 jobs and the cumulative PO4D with 4,400 jobs are expected for SMEs. The scope extension implies 700 extra jobs for PO6B (incl. PO6A) versus 830 for PO6C (incl. PO6A and PO6B measures). Other social and health effects relate to the export restrictions. Limiting the export of non-roadworthy vehicles may have a significant effect on local air pollution and increased road safety in developing countries. See Annex 8.4.1 for more details including job creation per policy option and economic operator. 
 6.5.2 Impacts on SMEs 
 The measures proposed in this impact assessment are likely to have substantial impacts on a number of SMEs, which are dominating the waste management sector, creating both opportunities and challenges. The economic viability of SMEs in the dismantling sector is already fragile and they will anyway have to face, under the baseline scenario, important challenges linked to the dismantling of EVs (notably for the training of staff and investments and adaptations so as to properly dismantle and store batteries and other EV components). For SMEs in the dismantling sector, measures consisting in increasing the number of parts and components to be removed prior to the shredding phase will generate important extra costs. These costs would be partly offset by additional revenues, notably linked to the sales of used spare parts, which will be considerably encouraged through measures designed to improve the market for such parts, as well as of valuable components (plastics, aluminium, CRMs) for high quality recycling. Taking advantage of the digitalisation process will be critical in empowering the smaller and often family-run companies to reach out to new market players by connecting to online platforms and distant marketplaces at both local and international levels. In addition, the ‘pull-effect’ from the mandatory targets on recycled content for plastics and (in the future) for steel are expected to boost the competitiveness of dismantlers, as they would become the primary supply spots of the wanted high-quality secondary materials. The measures designed to address the problems of “missing vehicles” will also have an important effect for the dismantling sector, as this will result in an important extra volume of ELVs delivered to ATFs, and thereby an increase in their turnover. For the extra costs linked to the proposed measures which cannot be offset through market conditions, the measures proposed on EPR will be key to ensure that vehicle manufacturers provide the necessary financial support to dismantlers so that they maintain their competitiveness and compete with illegal actors. 
 For SMEs involved in the sorting, shredding and recycling of ELV waste, the most impactful measures are those (i) on recycled content, which should ensure an increased market share for recycled plastics and steel and boost their competitiveness, as well as (ii) those designed to increase the quality of recyclates and improve the treatment of waste, especially the removal of parts prior to shredding and the requirements on shredding and post-shredding technologies. These measures would require investments, notably for the companies which are currently not operating modern shredding and post shredding technologies. In that case again, the measures proposed on EPR are due to ensure that extra-costs which cannot be offset under normal market conditions should be borne by vehicle manufacturers to support the recycling sector. 
 Overall, the proposed measures should support the competitiveness of SMEs in the dismantling and recycling sector through new market opportunities. It is likely though that a number of SMEs might not be able or willing to adapt their business models or invest in the technologies necessary to meet the new requirements, leading them to focus on activities such as repairs or sales of second-hand cars, rather than on the treatment of ELVs. In addition, the measures proposed on the design/production of vehicles, as well as those on EPR, could also encourage vehicle manufacturers to take a greater role in management of ELV waste. This could take the form of contractual arrangements with existing actors in the waste management, or of a more direct intervention through direct investments in this field. As a result, it is likely that the proposed measures could lead to a concentration of actors in the dismantling and recycling sectors and a reduction in the number of SMEs in this field. 
 SMEs exporting used vehicles to third countries would be directly affected by the measures on export foreseen under this initiative. They would incur costs linked to the obligation for them to carry out roadworthiness tests for vehicles which are currently exported after the certificate has expired. In addition, they are likely to see a decrease in revenues linked to a reduction in the export of used vehicles which do not meet the roadworthiness requirement estimated at 51 million EUR ( PO6B ) respectively 88 million EUR ( PO6C ). They would then have to sell these vehicles as ELVs to ATFs in the EU, at a lower price than what they could have obtained for exporting them. 
 Operators from the informal sector repairing and treating L3e-L7e category vehicles would also be affected as they would have to upgrade their standards and facilities to become officially authorised to treat these vehicles at end-of-life. This would require investments and possibly represent a loss of activities for those which are not able or willing to become an authorised treatment facility. More information on the impacts of proposed measures on SMEs can be found in Annex 13. 
 6.5.3 Contribution to SDGs 
 Figure 3 visualises the contribution of the policy options to the SDGs. On the left-hand ‘design and production’ side of the diagram, policy options PO1 and PO2 contribute mostly to sustainable innovations (SDG9), responsible consumption and production with a lower environmental footprint (SDG12) and climate action (SDG13). The collection and recycling options PO3 and PO4 contribute to the same SDGs and to less pollution water and air pollution (SDG14 and SDG15) to a lesser extent. PO5 improves partnerships for the goals (SDG17). See Annex 3.3 for more details. 
 Figure 3 Contribution of the Regulation to the SDGs 
 7. How do the options compare? 
 7 
 7.1 Summary of impacts and costs/ benefits 
 Table 10 provides a qualitative overview of the main environmental benefits 
 149 
 and administrative costs for the 3RTA policy options for PO1 . As indicated in Section 6, the environmental impacts of the options do materialise many years later at end-of-life and are thus not quantified but evaluated qualitatively. A growing incorporation of circularity requirements in the design and production of new vehicles is regarded important to achieve the long-term circularity objectives in the automotive sector , at relatively limited administrative costs as presented below , even for the most comprehensive PO1C (incl. PO1A and PO1B measures) . The qualitative evaluation on the reduction of substances of concern is available in Annex 7.1 , here the hybrid approach of PO1C offers the best cost – benefit balance. 
 Table 10 Comparison and summary of impacts, PO1 - Design Circular, 2035. 
 PO1 
 Costs and benefits 
 ( in 2035, compared to baseline, excl. admin) 
 PO1A 
 PO1B 
 PO1C 
 Environmental benefits (qualitative) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 1 
 3RTA - Circularity at design 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 1 
 Reduction substances of concern 
 (0) 
 (0/+) 
 (+) 
 Admin burden ( 3RTA in Million EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 1 
 Manufacturers, authorities (recurrent) 
 -0.8 
 -3.8 
 -5.6 
 1 
 Manufacturers, EC (one-off) 
 -2.6 
 Job creation (in FTE) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 1 
 Manufacturers 3RTA 
 +5 
 +5 
 +5 
 Since materials production is particularly energy intensive, the related environmental benefits of using recycled content, improving collection and recycling are expressed in GHG savings as the primary environmental impact category for comparison for PO2- PO6 
 150 
 . Table 11 provides an overview of the main environmental benefits and related costs to the recycled content targets for plastics and steel for PO2 . For plastics recycled content, the additional costs for PO2C in comparison with PO2B are high against marginal environmental benefits. The steel recycled content target of PO2 B provides significant GHG savings against limited additional costs. 
 Table 11 Comparison and summary of impacts, PO2 - Recycled content, 2035. 
 PO2 
 Costs and benefits 
 ( in 2035, compared to baseline, excl. admin) 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Environmental benefits (in kton of materials) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 Materials recycled (steel RC) 
 0 
 +505 
 +1,212 
 2 
 Materials recycled (plastics RC) 
 +240 
 +713 
 +873 
 GHG savings (kton of CO2-eq) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 GHG savings production (steel RC) 
 0 
 +585 
 +1,404 
 2 
 GHG savings production (plastics RC) 
 +90 
 +314 
 +376 
 Costs (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 Costs production (steel RC) 
 0 
 -71 
 -170 
 2 
 Costs production (plastics RC) 
 -326 
 -745 
 -1,171 
 Revenues (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 Revenues production (steel RC) 
 0 
 +67 
 +160 
 2 
 Revenues production (plastics RC) 
 +216 
 +602 
 +739 
 Monetised GHG savings (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 Avoided CO 2 taxation ETS (steel RC) 
 0 
 +133 
 +318 
 2 
 Avoided CO 2 taxation ETS (plastics RC) 
 +20 
 +71 
 +85 
 Admin burden ( 3RTA in Million EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 Manufacturers, TA authorities (recurrent) 
 -0.24 
 -0.24 
 -0.33 
 Job creation (in FTE) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 2 
 Manufacturers 
 +1,642 
 +3,264 
 +6,529 
 2 
 SMEs: ATFs+shredders 
 +598 
 +1,196 
 +1,794 
 For PO3 , T able 12 shows the additional amounts recycled at higher quality are comparable for PO3B (incl. PO3A) and PO3C (incl. PO3A and PO3B measures) , but the GHG savings are higher for PO3B due to improved aluminium separation as the main factor . The costs for the recycling option PO3A are much lower compared to the environmentally more effective options PO3B (see Annex 8.3 for details). Removal obligation prior to shredding of e-drive motor is estimated to contribute around 100 and 500 jobs in 2030 and 2040, generating specific additional costs at professional dismantler’s level but also generating higher revenues at the value chain level by 2040 
 151 
 . 
 Table 12 Comparison and summary of impacts, PO3 - Treat Better, 2035. 
 PO3 
 Costs and benefits 
 ( in 2035, compared to baseline, excl. admin) 
 PO3A 
 PO3B 
 PO3C 
 Environmental benefits (in kton of materials) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3 
 Materials at higher quality (recycling) 
 +942 
 +1,888 
 +1,984 
 GHG savings (ktons of CO2-eq) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3 
 GHG savings recycling (N1,M1) 
 +1,378 
 +3,688 
 +2,880 
 Costs (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3 
 Costs recycling (N1,M1) 
 -660 
 -1,492 
 -1,219 
 Revenues (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3 
 Revenues higher quality (recycling) 
 +412 
 +1,153 
 +851 
 Monetised GHG savings (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3 
 Monetised GHG savings at higher quality (recycling) 
 +312 
 +836 
 +653 
 Admin burden ( 3RTA in Million EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3,5 
 SMEs, authorities, PROs (recurrent) 
 -31.7 
 -31.7 
 -31.8 
 Job creation (in FTE) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 3 
 SMEs: ATFs+shredders 
 +934 
 +6,224 
 +6,504 
 For collection PO4, Table 13 shows the additional amounts collected and recycled and the GHG savings for the four different Policy Options, where PO4D is including cumulatively all measures under PO4A to PO4C . PO4D has the highest GHG savings with higher costs and revenues as well. This result is without the amplifying effect of the implementation of EPR, which adds another significant +2 million tons of GHG savings, +400 million EUR in revenues, +470 million EUR of monetised monetised GHG savings and -750 million EUR additional costs as presented in section 6.2.4. Detailed results are presented in Annex 8.4 and 8.5 for other years, per individual policy option and per stakeholder. 
 Table 13 Comparison and summary of impacts, PO4 – Collect More, 2035. 
 PO4* 
 Costs and benefits 
 (in 2035, compared to baseline, excl. admin) 
 PO4A 
 PO4B 
 PO4C 
 PO4D 
 Environmental benefits (in kton of materials) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4 
 Materials recovered (collection + export) 
 +103 
 +446 
 +961 
 +1,533 
 4 
 Vehicles collected and treated more 
 +116,000 
 +500,000 
 +1,100,000 
 +1,700,000 
 GHG savings (ktons of CO2-eq) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4 
 GHG savings collection + export 
 +353 
 +1,513 
 +3,222 
 +5,218 
 Costs (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4 
 Costs collection + export 
 -27 
 -123 
 -416 
 -556 
 Revenues (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4 
 Revenues collected + export 
 +26 
 +89 
 +140 
 +332 
 Monetised GHG savings (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4 
 Monetised GHG savings collected extra (incl. export) 
 +80 
 +343 
 +731 
 +1,183 
 Admin burden ( 3RTA in Million EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4,5* 
 SMEs, authorities, manufacturers (recurrent) 
 -35 
 -54 
 -54 
 -54 
 4,5* 
 Authorities (one-off) 
 -1.35 
 -1.35 
 -1.35 
 -1.35 
 Job creation (in FTE) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 4 
 SMEs: ATFs and shredders 
 +328 
 +1,195 
 +2,062 
 +4,374 
 5* 
 Manufacturers, PROs 
 +512 
 +512 
 +512 
 +512 
 * Some administrative burden and job creation include the impacts of EPR elements from PO5. 
 Table 14 shows the results for PO6 . For PO6C (incl. PO6A and PO6B measures), the costs and revenues can only be partly quantified due to lack of sufficient data on the impact of measures on design, production and recycled content. The data mentioned below are only indicative and not covering all costs and revenues. PO6B (incl. PO6A) has relatively high environmental benefits due to increased reported collection and treatment of new vehicles at ATFs (see Annex 8.6 for more details), with limited costs/revenue losses for (i) exporters, linked to the requirements to provide the information on the roadworthiness status for the export of lorries and busses, and for (ii) waste treatment operators, linked to the upgrade of facilities dealing with the treatment of end-of-life L3e-L7e category vehicles. 
 Table 14 Comparison and summary of impacts, PO6 - Cover more vehicles, 2035. 
 PO6 
 Costs and benefits 
 (2035, compared to baseline, excl. admin) 
 PO6A 
 PO6B 
 PO6C* 
 Environmental benefits (in kton of materials) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 Materials arriving at EoL (scope extension) 
 n.a 
 +508 
 +661 
 GHG savings (ktons of CO2-eq) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 GHG savings scope extension (L+HDV) 
 n.a 
 +1,120 
 +1,436 
 Costs (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 Costs scope extension (M2,M3,N2,N3) 
 n.a 
 -90 
 -141 
 Revenues (M EUR, excl. admin) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 Revenues scope extension 
 n.a 
 +81 
 +105 
 Monetised GHG savings (M EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 Monetised GHG savings (scope extension) 
 n.a 
 +254 
 +326 
 Admin burden ( 3RTA in Million EUR) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 Manufacturers, authorities, vehicle owners (recurrent) 
 -4.6 
 -13.6 
 -13.7 
 6 
 Manufacturers (one-off) 
 -0.082 
 -0.082 
 -0.082 
 Job creation (in FTE) 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 6 
 Manufacturers (qualitative) 
 n.a 
 701 
 829 
 * Only impacts of measure M31c (EPR and collection) are assessed. 
 7.2 Cost benefit analysis, cost efficiency , effectiveness, coherence and proportionality 
 Cost benefit analysis 
 Based on the quantitative information available for most policy options (see section 7.1), a presentation and comparison of the benefit - cost ratios (BCR) of the different options is presented in Table 15. A BCR ratio above 1 identifies those options where the benefits outweigh the costs. The higher the ratio, the higher the ‘return on investment’. 
 For these ratios, all quantifiable costs and revenues for the policy options, including recurring administrative burden, are taken into consideration. The benefits include revenues linked to additional material recovery as well as the environmental benefits in the forms of GHG savings which could be monetised. The costs include all treatment costs (including investment costs) and lost revenue potential in the case of export reduction. Due to their different nature or insufficient data, other external environmental costs or revenues, like health benefits, reduced air pollution (in developing countries due to higher quality exported vehicles), or the externalities related to reduced energy consumption, fossil fuel and raw material dependencies are not monetised. Therefore, the values of Table 15 are to be regarded as conservative estimates for the full societal benefits. 
 All detailed costs and benefit breakdown are presented in Tables 8.28 – 8.32 of Annex 8.5.2. This also includes a description of the key assumptions and allocations in the case of policy options 2 and 3 that are closely related. Here, specific allocations are applied to enable a fairer and more comparable benchmark for the steel and plastics recycled content targets, based on direct costs and benefits for the combined effect of the recycling efforts for these materials (PO3) that simultaneously enable the uptake of recycled content (PO2). See Annex 8.5.2 for the details and specific assumptions applied. 
 Table 15 Benefit – costs ratios (BCR) per policy option, 2035 
 Benefit / Cost ratios 
 (2035, compared to baseline, including recurrent admin istrative costs ) 
 Policy options 
 Preferred (individually) 
 Preferred 
 (combined 
+ EPR) 
 EUR per ton of CO2 reduction 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 PO1 3RTA 
 PO1A 
 PO1B 
 PO1C 
 B/C ratio 3RTA 
 Not assessed quantitatively 
 PO2 + PO3 Steel recycled content 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 B/C ratio design + production, steel RC *1 
 N.A. 
 1.69 
 2.38 
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
 PO2 + PO3 Plastics recycled content 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 B/C ratio design + production, plastics RC *2 
 0.96 
 1.21 
 0.94 
 1.21 
 1.21 
 PO3 Recycling 
 PO3A 
 PO3B 
 PO3C 
 B/C ratio recycling *3 
 0.99 
 1.22 
 1.03 
 1.22 
 1.24 
 PO4 Collection 
 PO4A 
 PO4B 
 PO4C 
 PO4D 
 B/C ratio collection (incl. export) 
 3.97 
 3.51 
 2.09 
 2.73 
 2.67 
 PO6 Scope extension 
 PO6A 
 PO6B 
 PO6C 
 B/C ratio scope extension 
 Not assessed 
 3.72 
 Not fully assessed 
 3.72 
 3.72 
 Benefit / costs ratio 
 1.57 
 1.58 
 *1 This includes the costs for removal of steel parts at ATFs originally allocated to PO3, *2 This includes the avoided emissions from plastics incineration originally allocated to PO3 for the plastics recycled under PO2, *3 This excludes the costs and avoided emissions allocated to PO2 (see Annex 8.5.2 for details and assumptions) 
 For PO2B and PO2C for the steel recycled content, the potential BCR lies significantly above 1 indicating important monetised CO 2 savings compared to the related costs for dismantling, sampling and sorting. It must be noted however that there is significant uncertainty on a number of important factors which are critical to set out directly in the future legislation an adequate level for a recycled content target for steel in new vehicles (see below for more elements on this). 
 For plastics, the BCR is lower, with relatively speaking higher investments to realise the monetised CO 2 credits in this case. Only PO2B has an acceptable BCR of 1.21. In the case of PO2A , the BCR slightly below 1 is due to relatively high investment costs for a smaller volume of plastics. For PO2C , a more constrained supply-demand balance and higher quality constraints to meet the closed loop share results in higher estimated costs of recyclates compared to the more optimal balance for PO2B . It should be noted that besides the economic revenues of material and energy savings, there are non-monetised environmental benefits like the external costs of fossil-fuel savings of 1.4, 4.5 and 5.4 billion Barrels of Oil equivalent for respectively PO2A, PO2B and PO2C , reduced plastic waste volume and health benefits as specified in Section 6.2.3 . 
 For the recycling policy options, PO3B (incl. PO3A measures) shows the most attractive benefit/ costs ratio where the material revenues from improved separation (1.15 billion EUR) plus monetised CO 2 savings (0.84 billion EUR plus 0.2 billion from avoided incineration) together outweigh the significant costs (1.50 billion EUR and 0.05 billion EUR removal costs) to achieve the improved treatment quality. 
 All collection options have a high BCR ranging from above 7 for PO4A to above 2 for PO4C and the cumulative option PO4D. Here, it should be noted that in absolute terms, the GHG savings are increasingly significant with PO4D having more than a tenfold value of +5.2 million tons of CO 2eq compared to +0.4 and +1.5 million tons for respectively PO4A and PO4B . PO4D is thus by far the most effective option with a net monetised result of +1,1 million EUR. Moreover, the higher collection volume further amplifies the recycling results of PO3 in particular and improve the availability of materials for the recycled content targets of PO2 (see Section 8.2). 
 PO6B (including PO6A measures) has a comparable BCR to the PO4 options of 3.7, reflecting the relatively high environmental benefits and increased revenues vs limited costs, linked to the additional treatment of lorries, buses and L3e-L7e category vehicles. 
 Cost – efficiency: cost per ton of CO2 avoided 
 To further compare the costs of the reduced GHG savings as a key decarbonisation objective of the proposal, Table 16 shows the costs per ton of CO 2eq avoided for the different options. It shows that the cumulative PO4D collection measures and particularly the roadworthiness requirement upon export in combination with all other measures has the lowest cost of only 43 EUR per ton of CO 2 reduction due to more recycling in the EU. This is followed by the PO2B recycled steel. Here the assessment is based on the combination of impacts including the costs for the PO3B (including PO3A measures) recycling improvement options, consistent with the same allocations as for the benefit - cost ratios highlighted under Table 15 above. The results for steel are thus indicative as the costs of creating higher purity scrap allocated to PO3B are related to both the removal of steel parts (allocated to PO2) as well as copper parts from the steel fraction (allocated to PO3 as a separate target material). For the steel recycled content, the costs of PO2B and PO2C are respectively 88 EUR and 29 EUR per ton. 
 Similarly for plastics, again based on the same allocations as for the benefit - cost ratios highlighted under Table 15 above, PO2B for plastics has a cost of 109 EUR per ton of CO 2 avoided and is more efficient compared PO2A with relatively high investment costs for a relatively low amount of plastics, resulting in over 200 EUR per ton of CO 2eq . For the higher volumes of PO2C , high prices of recyclates lead to a cost of 270 EUR per ton of CO 2eq . 
 Table 16 Cost per ton of GHG reduction for the various policy options, 2035 
 Costs per ton of CO 2eq avoided 
 (2035, compared to baseline , including recurrent administrative costs) 
 Policy options 
 Preferred (individually) 
 Preferred 
 (combined 
+ EPR) 
 EUR per ton of CO2 reduction 
 (values in addition to baseline) 
 PO1 3RTA 
 PO1A 
 PO1B 
 PO1C 
 Production (3RTA) 
 Not assessed quantitatively 
 PO2 Steel recycled content 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Production + recycling (steel RC) *1 
 N.A. 
 € 88 
 € 29 
 N.A. 
 N.A. 
 PO2 Plastics recycled content 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Production + recycling (plastics RC) *2 
 € 257 
 € 109 
 € 270 
 € 109 
 € 109 
 PO3 Recycling 
 PO3A 
 PO3B 
 PO3C 
 Recycling (excl. costs plastics/steel) *3 
 € 231 
 € 108 
 € 203 
 € 108 
 € 103 
 PO4 Collection 
 PO4A 
 PO4B 
 PO4C 
 PO4D 
 EUR/ton CO2, collection + export 
 < 0 
 € 23 
 € 86 
 € 43 
 € 50 
 PO6 Scope extension 
 PO6A 
 PO6B 
 PO6C 
 EUR/ton CO2, scope extension (L+HDV) 
 n.a. 
 € 8 
 n.a 
 € 8 
 € 8 
 € 69 
 € 72 
 *1 This includes the costs for removal of steel parts at ATFs originally allocated to PO3, *2 This includes the avoided emissions from plastics incineration originally allocated to PO3 for the plastics recycled under PO2, *3 This excludes the costs and avoided emissions allocated to PO2 (see Annex 8.5.2 for more details) 
 Efficiency, effectiveness, coherence and proportionality 
 Below Table 17 provides a summary of the comparison of the options based on the two key criteria that are quantified regarding ‘effectiveness’, for which the absolute GHG savings are used as the primary parameter and ‘efficiency’, from the previous Table. For PO1 and PO6 a more qualitive comparison is performed, as well as for the criteria of ‘coherence’ and ‘proportionality’ are provided. A more detailed description and the reference to all the individual instances in the supporting study are provided in Annex 8.5.2 
 Table 17 Comparison of options compared to the general objectives, effectiveness, efficiency, coherence and proportionality 
 PO1. Design Circular 
 PO1A 
 PO1B 
 PO1C 
 Effectiveness 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 Efficiency 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 Coherence 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 Proportionality 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (+++) 
 PO2. Steel Recycled Content 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Effectiveness 
 (o) 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 - incl. GHG savings (kton CO 2eq ) 
 0 
 +585 
 +1,404 
 Efficiency 
 (o) 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 - Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) 
 N.A. 
 1.7* 
 2.4* 
 Coherence 
 (o) 
 (+++) 
 (++) 
 Proportionality 
 (o) 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 PO2. Plastics Recycled Content 
 PO2A 
 PO2B 
 PO2C 
 Effectiveness 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 - incl. GHG savings (kton CO 2eq ) 
 +426* 
 +1,313* 
 +1,599* 
 Efficiency 
 (-) 
 (+) 
 (-) 
 - Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) 
 0.96* 
 1.2* 
 0.94* 
 Coherence 
 (+) 
 (+++) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (+++) highly positive 
 Proportionality 
 (o) 
 (+) 
 (--) 
 (++) 
 (++) moderately positive 
 PO3. Treat Better 
 PO3A 
 PO3B 
 PO3C 
 (+) 
 (+) slightly positive 
 Effectiveness 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (++) 
 (o) 
 (o) neutral/ baseline 
 - incl. GHG savings (kton CO 2eq ) 
 +1,042* 
 +2,689* 
 +1,656* 
 (-) 
 (-) slightly negative 
 Efficiency 
 (-) 
 (+) 
 (o) 
 (--) 
 (--) moderately negative 
 - Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) 
 0.91* 
 1.2* 
 0.99* 
 (---) 
 (---) highly negative 
 Coherence 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (+) 
 n.a. 
 not assessed 
 Proportionality 
 (+) 
 (+++) 
 (-) 
 PO4. Collect More 
 PO4A 
 PO4B 
 PO4C 
 PO4D 
 Effectiveness 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (+++) 
 - incl. GHG savings (kton CO 2eq ) 
 +353 
 +1,513 
 +3,222 
 +5,218 
 Efficiency 
 (+++) 
 (+++) 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 - Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) 
 4.0 
 3.5 
 2.1 
 2.7 
 Coherence 
 (+) 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 Proportionality 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 PO5. EPR 
 PO5A 
 PO5B 
 PO5C 
 Effectiveness 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (+) 
 Efficiency 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (+) 
 Coherence 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 (++) 
 Proportionality 
 (+) 
 (+++) 
 (++) 
 PO6. Cover more vehicles 
 PO6A 
 PO6B 
 PO6C 
 Effectiveness 
 (-) 
 (++) 
 (++) 
 - incl. GHG savings (kton CO 2eq ) 
 n.a. 
 +1,120 
 n.a. 
 Efficiency 
 (+) 
 (+++) 
 (-) 
 - Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) 
 n.a. 
 3.7 
 n.a. 
 Coherence 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (+++) 
 Proportionality 
 (+) 
 (++) 
 (--) 
 * Based under the same PO2/PO3 assumptions as applied to Table 15 and 16 
 The analysis reveals a range of consistent performances for almost all criteria for PO1C . 
 PO2C for recycled content of plastics has a lower score for proportionality, due to constraint availability of plastic recyclates. Both PO2A and PO2C for plastics have a benefit – cost ratio below 1, even when the monetised GHG savings of avoided incineration are added to the revenue side. The plastics recycling volume of PO2B appears to offer the best balance in costs and revenues. 
 For steel recycled content, PO2A is less efficient than PO2B and PO2C , however there are significant uncertainties in setting an appropriate target level, which make it difficult to derive a reliable assessment of the proportionality of the targets. 
 PO3A and PO3C (incl. PO3A and PO3B measures) have a benefit – cost ratio below 1 as well. The proportionality of PO3C is scoring low as the additional removal costs of materials and components are very costly compared to PO3B (incl. PO3A). 
 PO4C with the roadworthiness requirements upon export has a very significant impact on GHGs savings and therefore a higher effectiveness than PO4A and PO4B. It will also affect directly specialised car dealers exporting (low quality) used vehicles. The export requirements are proportionate: they do not set up a blanket ban on the export of used cars (even those above a certain age) but only require that used vehicles are roadworthy in compliance with Directive 2014/45/EU as a condition for export. Car dealers wishing to export a used vehicle whose roadworthiness certificate has expired can do a periodic technical inspection (PTI) to obtain a new certificate. This requirement is also consistent with the legislation applying in the EU as a vehicle which is not considered roadworthy cannot legally be driven on the EU roads. The cumulative PO4D, which combines measures from PO4A, PO4B and PO4C , has the maximum effectiveness as it provides for complementary measures applying both to (i) missing vehicles in the EU and (ii) ELVs and used cars exported outside the EU to ensure a higher collection in the EU. 
 PO5B (incl. PO5A measures) offers advantages of increasing harmonisation in the implementation of EPR requirements across the EU, whereas leaving room to member states for the market specific implementations. The measures under PO5C (incl. PO5A and PO5B measures) would be difficult to apply uniformly across the EU and may be unacceptable from a subsidiarity point of view (criterium not displayed in Table 17). Therefore, PO5B for EPR is the most effective, coherent and proportional choice. 
 PO6B (incl. PO6A measures) provides relevant environmental benefits. They are higher than PO6A which provides only limited benefits (even though they cannot be quantified). As indicated above, the impacts of PO6C cannot be completely quantified) but will certain generate important costs and would not be proportionate. In that respect, PO6B is a coherent and proportionate approach to increase circularity a harmonised manner in sectors which are currently not subject to any specific EU legal requirements. 
 8 Preferred policy package 
 Based on above comparison of options, the preferred policy package is a combination of the following options: PO1C (incl. PO1A and PO1B measures) for the design stage; A mix of choices for policy option 2: PO2A , M10a for recycled content for steel, PO2B , M9b for plastics and the empowerment for the Commission to establish targets for materials other than plastics and steel from PO2C , M11; PO3B (incl. PO3A measures) for waste management; the cumulative approach for PO4D for collection; PO5B (incl. PO5A measures) for economic incentives and EPR and PO6B (incl. PO6A measures) enabling a phased-in approach for the scope extension. These choices are explained below. 
 These options are included in this preferred policy package as they are the most effective and efficient in addressing each of the specific problems identified in section 2, first on their own merits. Second, the options are also mutually supportive and together form a carefully balanced package as explained at the end of section 8.1. 
 8.1 Preferred options 
 Design circular: PO1C , including all PO1A and PO1B measures ( M1-3,M4c ,M5c, M6-M 8 ) , is the preferred option . It anchors the circularity requirements as an important element of the type-approval of new vehicle types . It co ntains a mix of short term obligations ( requirement for vehicle manufacturers to make available detailed and user-friendly dismantling and recycling information , including the use and location of CRMs in vehicles and on the share of recycled content used in new vehicles ; follow-up on manufacturers ’ obligation to ensure recyclability and re-usability of type-approved vehicles through circularity strategies ) and actions on a medium term (revision of the methodology to calculate recyclability and re-usability of new vehicles at type-approval stage and the development of a n Circularity Vehicle Passport ) . This provides an ambitious, cost-effective and proportionate package to improve the circularity in the design of vehicles. For the substances in vehicles , the preferred option is to cover all new restrictions of substances in vehicles under REACH 
 152 
 , the Union’s core chemicals legislation, while e xisting restrictions on four substances in vehicles (and their associated exemptions) would remain regulated under the ELV/3RTA legislation. 
 Feedback from affected stakeholders: Many stakeholders from the automotive manufacturing sector stressed that they have embarked into the transition to circularity and that only minimal amendments were needed to the applicable legislation. They also specifically requested to consider other design-related compliance demands related to safety and climate neutrality requirements to avoid conflicting requirements. They often oppose the merger between the ELV Directive and the 3R TA Directive. A few of them however are in favour of addressing better design for recycling provisions in the new legislation, to ensure a level playing field and better transparency. The dismantling and recycling sectors (mostly SMEs) are calling for more ambitious legislation on the design for dismantling/recycling and on the sharing of information from vehicle manufacturers to help dismantling. Environmental NGOs, waste management authorities and public authorities are almost unanimously in support of a life-cycle approach covering all stages of the lifecycle and consequently to address the design for circularity measures. 
 153 
 Use recycled content : The preferred option includes a mix of the following measures: M9b for plastics, M10a for steel and M11 for other materials. 
 The ambition level of PO2B, M9b is the preferred option for plastics with recycled content targets of 25% applicable to newly type approved vehicles by 2031, of which 25% closed-loop. It provides a significant increase to the recycling of plastics from ELVs and lower the carbon footprint linked to the use of plastics in new vehicles. The PO2B level provides the best-cost-benefit balance, avoids excessive costs and risks of supply shortage, and offers most certainty for manufacturing planning. 
 For steel recycled content , all options can provide significant GHG savings and an important ‘pull effect’ to better utilise ELV steel scraps in the future, but to a different degree and in different stages. They complement the ‘push effect’ for increased quality of steel scrap defined under PO3B and enhance cooperation between manufacturers, steel industry and recyclers. The ambition level of PO2A ( M10a ) takes best into account the need to further address the uncertainty related to the ability of the automotive producers to increase the incorporation of steel scrap , in particular post-consumer scrap, in new electric vehicles 
 154 
 . The advantages of PO2B would be that creating a pull to increase scrap utilisation in steel production can achieve faster decarbonisation of production compared to other, more long-term technology conversions and it reduces the need for natural gas, coal and iron-ore in steel production more short-term, provided high quality scraps are made available. However , the uncertainty in setting an appropriate target level directly in the future legislation is too high . This is due to uncertaint ies about (i) the future share of long products (more likely to be able to include recycled steel) in EVs; (ii) current uptake levels of post-consumer scrap in flat production; (iii) the share of pre-consumer versus post-consumer in current scrap utilisation rates and finally about (iv) the impact o f such target on the availability and prices of scrap for other steel-demanding sectors. In that regard, the establishment of a steel recycled content target under PO2B , M10b , presents the risk to define the target level too low with the consequence that it would not form an actual incentive to h igher post-consumer scrap uptake levels. PO2C , M10c with the higher target and closed loop percentage may reduce flexibility in the sourcing of post-consumer scrap and is therefore not selected. PO2A , M10a is the preferred option in the case of steel. 
 Other recycled content targets for materials like aluminium and other CRMs like magnesium and REE permanent magnet materials cannot yet be substantiated as automotive designs are changing fast and recycling markets are very dynamic with significant progress in sorting technologies. Aluminium is a complex material with a range of alloy types involved and complex logistics to achieve sufficient economies of scale from treatment from sorted alloy families. It is further challenging to establish specific recycled content targets for each type. There are many economic factors to consider, e.g. demand and market value, recycling feasibility and profitability of each type, when determining targets for individual alloys. For these materials, the combination of the mandatory recycled content declaration under PO1C and the treatment requirements of PO3B are regarded adequate for the short term, but an empowerment for the Commission to come forward with recycled content targets for additional materials (such as CRMs, and aluminium) is foreseen within 5 years after the entry into force of the new legislation, if this proves necessary in the future ( PO2C , M11). 
 Feedback from affected stakeholders: Strong support was expressed for recycled content targets from the recycling and dismantling sectors, which are mostly composed of SMEs, and by civil society organisations. The automotive sector was more split on the opportunity to set such targets for plastics, mentioning possible lack of supply of recyclates meeting the specifications of their sector, as well as advocating that any possible future target should include pre-consumer waste and allow for chemical recycling. The plastics industry also insisted that chemical recycling was needed to increase recycled plastics in vehicles. The steel industry did not express support for recycled steel target, with EUROFER indicating that higher ELV scrap target will compete with (hydrogen based) EAF-DRI in the future as part of long-term investments in ‘green steel’. The automotive sector is divided: individual vehicle manufacturers have been developing a proactive approach in increasing the use of recycled content, as a key element in their decarbonisation policy. Several car manufacturers acknowledge difficulties in sourcing steels with recycled contents above 25%. The recycling sector sees a steel recycled content target as essential to help securing their supply of high-quality steel scrap and compensate for their investments to improve it. ACEA explicitly stated the need for sufficient lead time to adjust supply chains to new recycled content requirements. 
 Treat better: PO3B (including measures (M12, M13a-b,M14a-b,M15b,M16a-b) related to PO3A as highlighted in Table 1) is the preferred option , as it most effectively addresses the complexity of improving recycling quantity and quality for a wide variety of different materials present in ELVs. The GHG savings are higher and the costs are lower for PO3B in comparison to PO3C . The stricter definition of “recycling” and restrictions on landfilling will ensure that residues from shredding are effectively recycled or recovered, rather than backfilled or landfilled. This option also contains specific and cost-effective measures for each of the materials and different types. The removal obligations prior to shredding of PO3B allow for substantial progress to recover and recycle batteries and electric drive motors from EVs and other parts/components containing plastics, precious metals and CRMs, which are associated with the electrification of the fleet and the wide use of electronics in new vehicles (M13a, M13b). To remain technology-neutral, a derogation from this obligation would apply when recyclers provide verifiable evidence that separation leads to recyclates of at least similar high quality as via manual dismantling. The PO3B ban on mixed treatment and mandatory removal and separate recycling of e-drive motors would thrive the permanent magnet recycling value chain and generate new flows of CRMs for further recycling. It is estimated that respectively circa 2.4 kton and 4.2 kton of permanent magnet flows would be made available in 2035 and 2040 for high quality recycling from future EU ELVs. The separate sorting and recycling of e-drive motors will have a positive impact on innovation and R&D in the EU. The available e-drive motors thanks to this option would thrive research, innovation and the development of new recycling technologies to increase the recovery of SRM, especially CRMs. It would further decrease copper contamination in steel and aluminium scraps from ELVs. 
 Feedback from affected stakeholders: The most common responses supported measures to improve the separate recycling of materials from ELVs , to increase their quality . The dismantling and recycling sectors pointed out that these measures would increa se their costs . EuRIC and BVSE 
 155 
 expressed strong concerns in case removal obligations would be strictly interpreted as a manual dismantling approach, which could lead to excessive costs and hamper innovation in (semi)-automated pre-treatment and PST. 
 Collect more: PO4D , which encompasses all measures (M17b, M18, M19a-c, M20, M21) of PO4A , PO4B , and PO4C as outlined in Table 1, represents the preferred option. Table 4 confirms that this combination is the most effective means of achieving the objective of increased ELV collection. Additionally, Table 15 demonstrates that this combination provides a high cost-benefit ratio at the same time. The traceability of used vehicles and ELVs would be improved through (i) a clearer allocation of responsibility for the issuing and reporting of the certificate of destruction (CoD) among economic operators and competent authorities and (ii) the integration of additional information in national vehicle registration systems and their interoperability between Member States. To address the illegal export of ELVs and reduce export of non-roadworthy vehicles, binding criteria for the distinction between used vehicles and ELVs would be established as well as (M19b) a requirement that the export of used vehicles is only authorised if it can be verified that the vehicle concerned is roadworthy. (M21). New provisions on enforcement would also help addressing illegal treatment and export of ELVs. The impact of these measures should be significant in terms of bringing additional ELVs for treatment to legal ATFs in the EU and reducing the EU external environmental footprint linked to the export of vehicles which are not roadworthy. 
 Feedback from affected stakeholders: There was strong support from stakeholders to adopt ambitious measures to address the persistent problems of “missing vehicles”, including through stricter conditions on the export of non-roadworthy used vehicles. 
 Financial and organisational incentives : PO5B (including all measures (M22 -M25 ) related to PO5A as highlighted in Table 1) is the preferred option, providing su bstantial incentives for a better functioning of the recycling market via the establishment of an obligation for producers to increase collection of ELVs and cover costs of dismantling efforts that cannot be offset by the trade in used parts or recyclates . This will also help reducing illegal practices 
 156 
 . To ensure harmonisation on how fees are calculated across the EU and further create design incentives leading to lower future recycling costs, th is option sets out criteria on how EPR fees are to be modulated , such as the weight of the vehicle, the time to dismantle components such as the battery and amount of recycled content . In addition, it sets out a mechanism to ensure that fees by vehicle manufacturers are paid to recyclers , in the case where the vehicle is treated as an ELV in an EU Member State different than the one where it was placed on the market (“cross-border” EPR mechanism). This takes account of the important volume of intra-EU movements of used vehicles. It is particularly relevant for waste operators located in Member States which have a la rge share of old used vehicles in their fleet , as these vehicles often bec ome waste and are treated in these Member States , while many of these vehicles were placed on the EU market as new vehicles in another Member State . 
 Feedback from affected stakeholders: Many vehicle manufacturers pointed out that the dismantling sector is profitable under normal market conditions and does not need extra financial compensation. Some of them stressed that they should be entitled to exercise their producer responsibility duties through individual schemes, and not be obliged to join Producer Responsibility Organisations. Stakeholders from the dismantling, shredding and recycling sector pleaded for more financial responsibility from the automotive industry to cover extra costs linked to increased collection and improved waste management, but also underlined that EPR obligations should not reduce their independence and called for clear safeguards in future schemes in this regard. 
 Cover more vehicles: PO6B (including the information provision measures M28 from PO6A plus M30a-b,M31b,M32) as highlighted in Table 1) is selected as the preferred option for the scope extension to L3e-L7e category vehicles, lorries, buses and trailers. It sets out basic requirements for environmental protection and minimum recycling quality via (i) the provision of information by manufacturers on composition of these vehicles, (ii) the obligation that lorries, buses and L3e-L7e category vehicles reaching end-of-life shall only be treated in authorised treatment facilities (ATFs), (iii) new rules on the export of lorries and busses and (iv) the establishment of manufacturer’s responsibility for the collection and reporting for these vehicles (basic EPR scheme). These requirements are reaching less far than those applying to M1-N1 vehicles, providing more moderate environmental benefits, at a limited cost. They represent a “phased-in” approach, i.e., a starting point to put these vehicles on a path to more circular business models, initiating a change in practices and allowing to gain additional information which could pave the way for more ambitious measures in the medium to long-term. 
 Feedback from affected stakeholders: Almost all stakeholder categories participating in the open public consultation were in favour of extending the Directive to additional vehicles, including all environmental NGOs, absolute majority of public authorities and waste management operators who were mainly represented by SMEs. For automotive producers and suppliers, more companies were in favour rather than against, but most of them indicated that a full extension of the scope to new vehicles would not be desirable in the short term, in view of the differences between these vehicles and the vehicles currently in the scope of the ELV and 3RTA Directives. 
 Interlinkages and synergies between the options in the preferred policy package 
 The preferred policy package offers the best choice of combination of options, as it addresses in a synergetic way all the objectives of this review and apply to all relevant stakeholders in an equitable manner 
 157 
 . T he options retained in the preferred package are closely interlinked and mutually supportive , as illustrated by the following examples 
 · The measures under the preferred option PO1 C on design and type-approval ( for example requirements for vehicle manufa c turers to develop circularity strateg ies and provide better information to dismantlers and recyclers ) will greatly support implementing the preferred measures under PO3 B on waste treatment (for example removal and selective treatment by the dismantlers of components and parts , to allow for higher quality recycling and higher rate of re-use of spare parts) . 
 · T he measures under PO3 B are needed to allow for a higher uptake of recycled materials , such as plastics, steel and CRMs in new vehicles, and thereby implement the preferred measures under PO2. At the same time, the measures on recycled content in PO2 are essential for the success of measures under PO3 : they will boost the market for secondary materials , ensuring that a steady supply of high quality recyclates from ELVs will find its way for incorporation into new vehicles , thereby supporting the economic viability of measures under PO3 . 
 · The increase in collection of ELVs generated by the preferred measure under PO 4 D increase s the overall effectiveness of the package . It provides much higher amount s of materials to be treated from ELVs collected more and direct ly amplifies the recycling impacts ( PO3 ) and availability of recycled content ( PO2 ) . 
 · The economic and governance incentives provided under PO5B are in turn essential to ensure that the costs for the new measures under PO3 B and PO4C are equitably shared between dismantlers , shredd er , recycl ers and vehicle manufacturers , so that they can be implemented in cost-effective manner and have a maximised impact . 
 The choice of the preferred package of options PO1 to PO5 is therefore based both on the individual performance for each option in meeting its corresponding specific objective, but also on its impact in facilitating and maximising the implementation of other objectives. Other combinations of options, in particular those for PO4 and PO5 providing significant synergies for the recycling potential of PO3 and the recycled content of PO2, would provide a lower performance in this regard. 
 The option on the extension of scope (PO6) has less direct links with the other options, as it applies to different segments of the automotive sector. The preferred option ( PO6B ) consists in the best performing one for putting these segments on a path to more circular business models, taking fully into account the principle of proportionality: the measures proposed would represent limited new obligations in the short to medium term, avoiding the imposition of excessive costs or burdens. 
 8.2 Combined impacts of the preferred policy package 
 The combined impacts of the preferred policy package are presented in Table 18. They are calculated for the year 2035 and compared to the baseline scenario. Data for 2030 and 2040 are provided in Annex 8.5. Compared to the impacts presented per policy option in Section 6, there are significant synergies when applied in combination as explained in Section 8.1. 
 The overall environmental benefits are assessed as an annual reduction of 12.3 million tons of CO 2 -eq in 2035 (10.8 million tons in 2030 to 14.0 million tonnes in 2040), key for the decarbonisation of the automotive industry. These CO2 savings represent 2.8 billion EUR when monetised. This is linked notably to a better valorisation of 5.4 million tons of materials (plastics, steel, aluminium, copper, CRMs) which would be either recycled at higher quality or re-used, as well as to the fact that up to 3.8 million additional ELVs would be collected and treated extra in the EU. 350 tons of rare earths in permanent magnet materials would be separately collected for reuse and recycling in 2035 (1,500 tons in 2040), which would contribute greatly to the EU efforts for strategic autonomy for CRMs. 
 The total annual revenues for the preferred option is 5.2 billion EUR in 2035 , including 2.8 billion EUR of monetised GHG savings, against a cost of 3.3 billion EUR, leading to a 1.8 billion net revenue. The cost of the preferred option is determined at 66 EUR for all new vehicle put on the market in 2035 . The estimated additional jobs are determined at 22,100 , of which 14,200 are created in SMEs. 
 The overall costs for public authorities are estimated to reach 2 4 million EUR (less than 2 EUR/vehicle), mostly linked to the supervision of EPR schemes, enforcement activities (in particular inspection campaigns and control on export of ELVs and used vehicles 
 158 
 ) and adaptation of national vehicles registration systems. The various measures on digitalisation of procedures 
 159 
 will increase efficiency for enforcement authorities and economic operators, and alleviate their burden. 
 Table 18 Total environmental benefits and costs and per vehicle for the preferred option in 2035 
 Environmental impacts 
 (2035, compared to baseline) 
 Preferred 
option 
 Economic impacts 
 (2035, vs . baseline, incl. admin burden) 
 Preferred 
option 
 PO 
 All life-cycle stages (in kton of materials) 
 Design + production (M EUR, - = cost , + =revenue) 
 2 
 Steel recycled content 
 +0 
 Manufacturers (incl. admin burden) 
 -430 
 2 
 Plastics recycled content 
 +713 
 Admin burden authorities 
 -23 
 3 
 Materials at higher quality (recycling) 
 +2,322 
 Collection + recycling (M EUR, - = cost , +=revenue) 
 4 
 Materials recovered (collection + export) 
 +1,876 
 Consumers, vehicle owners (incl. admin burden) 
 -153 
 6 
 Materials recovered (scope extension) 
 +508 
 Car dealers (export requirements) 
 -574 
 Total materials recycled at HQ (kton) 
 +5,420 
 ATFs 
 -40 
 ELVs collected, treated +reported (M units) 
 8.2 
 Shredders/PST operators 
 -110 
 4,5,6 
 Extra ELVs to ATFs and CoD reported 
 +3.8 
 Recyclers (incl. plastics, steel RC) 
 +375 
 4,5,6 
 Non-reported treatment 
 -1.7 
 Admin burden treatment 
 -42 
 4,5,6 
 Export of ELVs/used vehicles 
 -2.1 
 Collection+recycling (M EUR, - =cost , + =revenue) 
 GHG savings (ktons of CO2-eq) 
 Total costs (all) 
 -€ 3,417 
 1,2 
 GHG savings production (steel RC) 
 +0 
 Total revenues (all) 
 € 2,420 
 2 
 GHG savings production (plastics RC) 
 +314 
 Total (M EUR, excl CO2 credits) 
 -€ 997 
 3 
 GHG savings recycling (N1,M1) 
 +4,536 
 Total (M EUR, incl CO2 credits) 
 € 1,797 
 4 
 GHG savings collection + export (N1,M1) 
 +6,350 
 Total (EUR/ vehicle, excl. CO2 credits) * 
 -€ 66.34 
 6 
 GHG savings scope extension (L+HDV) 
 +1,120 
 Total (EUR/ vehicle, incl. CO2 credits) * 
 € 119.58 
 GHG savings (ktons of CO2-eq) 
 +12,320 
 Average cost GHG savings (EUR/ton) 
 -€ 80.91 
 * Represents all costs and benefits allocated to all new vehicles, including the scope extension and recurring administrative burden; The net costs per new N1,M1 vehicle, e.g. excluding the scope extension, is 65.01 EUR, see Annex 8.5.4 for all vehicle numbers and disaggregated numbers per vehicle category 
 The costs and revenues for the different stakeholders affected by the preferred option, calculated per vehicle and for all stages of the process (type-approval, design, production, collection, waste treatment, export), are estimated as follows: 
 · F or vehicle manufacturers , the n et costs linked to p roduction and design , primarily related to plastic recycled content, would represent roughly 26 EUR per vehicle (N1,M1 , 392 million EUR adjustment costs, 38 million EUR admin istrative burden for the manufacturer and 2 3 million EUR administrative burden for authorities ) . In addition, t he costs linked to collection and treatment ( 150 million EUR not covered by revenues, including administrative burden for treatment of 42 million EUR ) which could potentially be covered by the manufacturers under the EPR schemes would amount to 12 EUR per n ew vehicle 
 160 
 . The total costs (5 8 0 million EUR) for manufacturers ( production + EPR fees ) of 39 EUR per new vehicle are expected to be ultimately covered by the consumer when buying a new vehicle . These are short to medium-term costs for the EU automotive industry . T he preferred option would also reduce its energy and strategic raw material dependencies and provide for important savings. While these revenues cannot all be quantified, they are expected to be significant and spill over to the whole automotive supply chain (see section 8.3 for more elements on this point) ; 
 · For the waste treatment sector , the costs ( 530 million EUR) for ATFs of 44 EUR per vehicle, mainly from dismantling efforts, slightly outweigh anticipated revenue increases ( 490 million EUR) of 40 EUR per vehicle . Similarly, for shredders , the 101 EUR of extra cost per vehicle ( 1,230 million EUR in total) mainly from new investments in better sorting technologies compares against a 92 EUR of revenue potential (1,120 million EUR) . In these two cases, the differential between costs and revenues is expected to be covered by fees from manufacturers under EPR schemes. It is important to stress that the situation will considerably differ between Member States and economic operators, depending on the current treatment technologies used (esp. availability of PST) and labour costs. For recyclers , due to increased materials availability (incl. CRMs removed) and improved prior separation in previous stages , the revenue potential of 49 EUR per vehicle ( 4 40 million EUR) clearly outweighs a 29 EUR per vehicle cost increase ( 770 million EUR) . The combined administrative burden for treatment operators i s 3.50 EUR per new vehicle. The preferred option would also reinforce and boost the recycling sector, encouraging its modernisation and expansion. The preferred option would favour innovation in new processes and technologies, for sorting and high-quality recycling, building on current research 
 161 
 . 
 · For specialised car and heavy-duty vehicle exporters , the revenue loss is expected to reach around 47 EUR per new vehicle sold ( 570 million EUR) ; 
 · For consumers , in addition to a likely increase in prices of new vehicles of around 39 EUR per vehicle (aforementioned 580 million EUR) , they might also expect a decrease in prices when selling second-hand cars due to reduced export there of 12 EUR per vehicle (150 million EUR) , but should also be able to benefit from cheaper prices for used spare parts due to all measures designed to support their recovery and sales ; 
 · The administrative costs for public authorities (23 million EUR) dealing with type approval, vehicle registration, customs control and ECHA) are 1.40 EUR per vehicle. 
 · The total one-off administrative costs are 2.45 million EUR for manufacturers and 1.55 million EUR for authorities. 
 Annex 8.5.4 specifies the costs and revenues breakdown per vehicle and stakeholder. It further quantifies the uncertainty in the costs per vehicle, for various scenarios as well as the breakdown for the current vehicle category scope. 
 8.3 Expected impacts on the competitiveness of the automotive industry 
 Reducing the negative environmental impacts linked to the design, production, service life and end-of-life treatment of vehicles will contribute to the sustainability of the vehicle production and recycling sectors, but it is also important to discuss the distinct impacts of the initiative on the competitiveness of the automotive industry as a whole. This is especially so in the current context of the transition to climate neutrality, which puts pressures on the automotive industry, requiring significant investments, innovation and new technologies, reorganisation of supply chains and reducing strategic dependencies of raw materials. 
 D espite the moderate cost increases for the automotive industry 
 162 
 resulting from the application of the proposed measures, i ncreased circularity of the automotive sector can grow its competitiveness in several ways. 
 First and foremost, by increasing the use of recycled materials and reducing waste, vehicle manufacturers can reduce the energy embedded in their products. As evidenced by the substantial GHG savings foreseen for all policy options assessed, increasing levels of ambition in circularity will help manufacturers decarbonise in a cost-efficient way. Some of the measures in the preferred policy package –notably, those related to extended producer responsibility schemes under option PO3– would result in a net transfer of funds from vehicle manufacturers to dismantlers and shredders, for instance to cover necessary recycling technology investments in the short term. However, these funds will ultimately benefit the markets for secondary raw materials serving the automotive industry with higher quality recycled materials with a lower environmental footprint. 
 Secondly, the proposed measures under policy options PO1 and PO2 can help manufacturers reduce their dependence on virgin raw materials, which can be subject to price fluctuations and supply chain disruptions. By using recycled materials and implementing circular processes, vehicle manufacturers will create more resilient supply chains and reduce their exposure to price volatility. This is especially true for CRMs and to increase their recovery from end-of-life vehicles, this initiative sets out that the Commission will develop specific requirements on the design for dismantling, removability and recycling of CRM relevant parts and components from vehicles. 
 Third, circular practices can create new revenue streams for companies by turning waste into a valuable resource. For example, vehicle manufacturers can sell recycled materials to other industries, or offer recycling services to customers. Some manufacturers are already pursuing innovative business models where they lease EV batteries and take them back from their customers at the end-of-life stage to recycle them to extract valuable materials such as lithium and cobalt. 
 Fourth, as an indirect benefit, circular practices can enhance a company's brand image and reputation by demonstrating its commitment to sustainability and environmental responsibility. This can, in turn, attract investors which are interested in investing in sustainable products and thereby allowing the manufacturers to benefit of a green investment premium. Furthermore, it can also attract environmentally conscious consumers willing to pay a premium for sustainable products and increase brand loyalty. Several EU manufacturers may be considered front-runners in different aspects of circular production and design. An increased focus on circularity will also help vehicle manufacturers meet the regulatory requirements in non-EU markets and increase the appeal of their products and services. 
 8.4 REFIT (simplification and improved efficiency) 
 The preferred option provides for improved efficiency and harmonisation and takes into account majority of suggestions provided in the Fit for Future Platform (F4F) opinion 
 163 
 . In terms of the overall regulatory burden, the costs and benefits of the preferred package are considered to be balanced and proportionate to achieve the objectives of the revision. There are higher costs in the short term for applying new requirements related to the vehicle design and improving the quality of ELV treatment which would be offset over time and result in significant GHG savings in the production phase, and higher economic viability of ELV treatment operators 
 164 
 , w hile also supporting the competitiveness of the operators across automotive value chain. 
 Specification of common requirements for vehicle type-approval procedures (e.g. clarification of the type-approval procedure, information requirements) will streamline internal market procedures for manufacturers (PO1-2). Further simplification would result in new restrictions on chemical substances being centralized under REACH, the primary EU chemical legislation (PO1), including the restrictions relevant to the extended vehicle categories (PO6). As regards the treatment of ELVs, the alignment of recycling definition with the Waste Framework Directive will simplify the legal interpretation and will increase comparability of the reporting data by MS (PO3). Setting ELV criteria for EPR schemes will limit diverging approaches in Member States (PO5). This will allow to simplify procedures, and thus would improve transparency. Alignment of requirements for the extended vehicle categories will provide legal clarity for the economic operators of the automotive sector (PO6). 
 8.5 Application of the ‘one in, one out’ approach 
 The estimates of administrative costs for the purposes of the Commission’s ‘one-in-one-out’ policy are presented in Table 19 below and in Annex 3. The administrative costs for public authorities and inspection-related activities have been excluded. 
 Table 19 Costs related to the ‘one in, one out’ approach 
 Costs in million EUR 
 Citizens/ consumers 
 Businesses 
 One-off 
 Recurrent 
 One-off 
 Recurrent 
 Administrative costs (for offsetting) 
 0 
 2.331 
 2.452 
 79.720 
 Overall, the recurrent costs related to the ‘one-in, one-out’ approach per vehicle are assessed at 81.8 million EUR or EUR 5.45 per new vehicle for the preferred option package . The preferred option makes a maximum use of the digitalisation potential to ensure efficient enforcement of new requirements , without which the impacts would have been an additional 32.2 million EUR or 4 0% higher costs . In comparison, streamlining of reporting obligation with existing requirements prevents another 8.8 million EUR or 11% higher costs. The development of digitally accessible documentation through existing platforms and then via the Circularity Vehicle Passport will ensure an efficient access by economic operators, in particular SMEs (e.g. ATFs, garages and repair shops), to information needed to boost circular use of automotive materials. Digitalisation will also play a significant role in increasing the collection of ELV and addressing the problem of “missing vehicles”. This will be done through digitalisation of reporting of ELVs by ATFs to competent authorities and by ensuring that Member States authorities exchange digitally the vehicle registration information required to better track used vehicles and ELVs across the EU. ATFs would benefit due to more streamlined issuing and tracking of CoDs 
 165 
 . Interconnection with the EU Single Window Environment for Customs would enable customs authorities to enforce new conditions on the export of used vehicles. 
 8.6 International Aspects 
 In 2021, the European automobile industry export ed 5 m i llion pass enger cars , while over 3 million passenger cars were imported to the EU 
 166 
 . The sales of new vehicles manufactured outside the EU represent 30% of the overall sales in the EU, while 46% of the vehicles manufactured in the EU are exported 
 167 
 . Measures under the preferred option on design and production equally apply to domestic and imported products. Exporters to the EU wou l d have to comply with the requirements under type-approval and with the plastics and steel recycled content targets 
 168 
 . This would complement other requirements which are mandatory for the placing of a vehicle on the EU market . An assessment of the economic impact demonstrates that the proposed new design related requirements 
 169 
 would not significantly affect production cost per vehicle. The obligation for vehicle manufacturers and importers to provide information on substances of concern, dismantling of parts/components and of recycled content will be based on digital platforms already in existence or in development by the entire automotive supply chain, regardless of producing inside or outside Europe. The costs linked to financial contributions for EPR schemes under PO5B would apply equally to manufacturers of vehicles in the EU and those importing vehicles in the EU, similar as what is foreseen for example for batteries under the future Regulation on batteries. 
 The improved recycling obligations of PO3B may lead to reduced amounts of waste fractions shipped from the EU . This is consistent with the CEAP objective that the EU should take more responsibility for the waste generated in Europe , while respecting the EU’s international legal obligations. T he proposal is fully consistent with the Basel Convention. For fractions that will be exported for treatment abroad, the approach is in line with the Waste Shipment Regulation that they should be treated in “broadly equivalent conditions’ as in the EU. The export limitation for used vehicles which are not roadworthy, combined with all collection enhancing measures and improved traceability via interoperable registers under PO4 D , ensures vehicles that are not technically fit to be on the EU roads would not be exported and not create safety and environmental (pollution) problems in third countries . The expected export reduction for used passenger vehicles could reach up to 65 % . This is a maximum level, based on available studies 
 170 
 , 
 171 
 indicating that a large share of used vehicles currently exported are of low quality and value and do not comply with the roadworthiness requirements in accordance with Directive 2014/45/EU . The se export requirements complement action s and policies which have been launched recently by many receiving countries to improve air quality and road safety , via restrictions on the import of used vehicles based on roadworthiness conditions, age limits or compliance with Eur o emission standards 
 172 
 . The export measures are justified by the need to address the EU environmental footprint linked are consistent with the EU environmental policy, as reflected notably in the EU Action Plan: “ Towards Zero Pollution for Air, Water and Soil” 
 173 
 . Additionally, these measures are also consistent with the CEAP and the EU waste policy as they contribute to the implementation of ‘waste hierarchy’, in particular by preventing non-roadworthy vehicles, which are at the end of their useful life, from being disposed in the receiving countries where often substandard treatment of ELVs causes environmental damages, such as oil spillage, unsound treatment of refrigerants or improper removal of hazardous substances and of components for higher quality of recycling 
 174 
 . Addressing the problem of unsustainable trade in used vehicles which gene rate environmental pollution and road safety is not solely the responsibility of importing countries . As indicated in section 5.1 , the control on the import of used vehicles represent s substantial challenges for importing countries. In addition, the technical control processes are not yet robust enough to identify unsafe or high pollutant vehicles in some countries relying on the import of used vehicles 
 175 
 . The export-related measure s contained in the preferred option and the import measures taken by importing countries are therefore mutually supportive . Export measures enhance the efficiency of measures taken by importing countries and are key to ensure that th e overall global trade in used vehicles become s more sustainable. Th is is in line with the recognition by the UN Environmental Assembly of the global environmental challenges linked to trade of used vehicles . On this basis, the UN Environment Programme , working together with other international organisations 
 176 
 , is spearheading international cooperation to ensure that exporting and importing countries address jointly the se problem s . The export related measures are also consistent with the current efforts of the European Commission to support the African Union and its members states in harmonising road transport regulations and policies . Under the current M ultiannual Financial Perspectives , the Commission provides more than EUR 50 million to the African Union for projects in that regard, such as the African Transport Policy Programme 
 177 
 , providing assistance with setting vehicle’s standards and safety ratings for new and used vehicles, the Tripartite Transport and Transit Facilitation Programme 
 178 
 , enforcing vehicle load management and vehicle standard regulations , and the UN Road Safety Fund (UNRSF 
 179 
 ) which, among other things, promotes the use of roadworthy vehicles with an emphasis on periodic technical inspection. 
 The new export requirements should not lead to major disruptions in the supply of used vehicles to the recipient countries . The collected evidence suggests that countries which have already implemented comprehensive import restrictions for several years , which notably require inspections of used vehicles prior to export by private companies 
 180 
 , have not seen major changes in the volume of used vehicles that they imported . While in some cases there was a decrease for a short transitional term , imports resumed to previous levels after a few years . These re gulatory change s ha ve been contributing to higher quality of second - hand vehicles and the renewal of the fleet with safer and cleaner vehicles 
 181 
 . The export-related measures will contribute to ensure that the future demand for vehicles in developing countries is increasingly met by cleaner vehicles : while the export of vehicles from the EU which are not roadworthy will result in a decrease in the export of the most polluting and dangerous ones , the export of roadworthy used vehicles will continue to be allowed . These vehicles are expect ed to be less polluting in the future in light of the new emission standards applying in the EU . Used vehicles of a higher quality will also last longer which means that there will be a reduced need to replace them and increase imports. The possibility that the supply of used vehicles shift s from the EU to other exporting countries cannot be ruled out , but would require significant changes in the market and its possible negative environmental consequences would be mitigated through the ongoing international cooperation initiatives led by UNEP on this issue. 
 9 How will actual impacts be monitored? 
 Effective monitoring relies on harmonised reporting on all measures included in the preferred option package. Reporting over the design and production differs from reporting on the ELV requirements in type of information to be reported, timing and type of stakeholders. For the design and production stages, the main responsibilities are with manufacturers to provide reliable information on their compliance with the recyclability/re-usability targets, on the circularity strategy and chemical content (including substances of concern information, and recycled content). Verification is mainly up to type-approval and market surveillance competent authorities of Member States to check requirements at the level of economic operators. Communication of dismantling information to treatment operators and general circularity data to vehicles owners will be increasingly digitalised and made available via existing IT platforms. The reporting over collection, treatment and EPR predominantly follows existing reporting sequences from treatment operators to PROs, to competent authorities and to the Commission, including Eurostat. Table 19 provides a list of indicators to monitor implementation of the new Regulation. Based on these elements, the Commission will carry out a review of the new legislation within 8 years after its entry into force. 
 Table 20 Monitoring indicators 
 Objectives 
 Monitoring indicators 
 Monitoring details 
 Design and production stages 
 Design circular (PO1) 
 3R percentages declared at 3R type-approvals per vehicle type 
 The number of verified substances of concern declarations 
 The number of verified recycled content declarations 
 Verification of circularity strategy information 
 M1 in Annex 7.2.1 
 M4a in Annex 7.2.1 
 M4b in Annex 7.2.1 
 M6 in Annex 7.2.1 
 Use recycled content (PO2) 
 Percentage of recycled content for steel per new vehicle type 
 M9, M10 in Annex 7.2.2 
 Collection and recycling stages 
 Treat better 
 (PO3) 
 Reuse + recycling and reuse + recovery rates (ESTAT) 
 Amount of removed parts and components prior shredding 
 Number of inspections at treatment operators 
 Monitoring overviews warnings and fines at treatment operators 
 M12 in Annex 7.2.3 
 M13 a-c in Annex 7.2.3 
 M17b in Annex 7.2.4 
 M17b in Annex 7.2.4 
 Collect more 
 (PO4) 
 Number of vehicles and weight collected and recycled (ESTAT) 
 Number of vehicles and weight placed on the marked (ESTAT) 
 Number of vehicles and weight in the national fleets (NEW) 
 Number of used vehicles exported from the EU 
 Number of inspections of exports of ELV or used vehicles 
 Existing at Eurostat 
 Idem 
 M20 in Annex 7.2.4 
 M21 
 M19a 
 Financial Incentives (PO5) 
 Number of ELV specific PROs and the number of ATFs and PST plants and their treatment capacity 
 M23 in Annex 7.2.5 
 All life-cycle stages 
 Cover more vehicles (PO6) 
 Number of reports on the fleet development and number of vehicles treated at ATFS with CoDs issued 
 M30a,b, M31b in Annex 7.2.6 
 ESTAT = existing data field in Eurostat ELV statistics 
 182 
 ; NEW = recommended addition to ESTAT ELV statistics 
 (1) 
 https://environment.ec.europa.eu/strategy/circular-economy-action-plan_en 
 (2) 
 https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal/industry-and-green-deal_en 
 (3) 
 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/resource.html?uri=cellar:a1c34a56-b314-11eb-8aca-01aa75ed71a1.0001.02/DOC_1&format=PDF 
 (4) 
 https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-13852-2020-INIT/en/pdf 
 (5) 
 https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-9-2021-0040_EN.html 
 (6) 
 Directive 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 2000 on end-of life vehicles 
 (7) 
 Directive 2005/64/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability. 
 (8) 
 See the Versailles Declaration adopted in March 2022: 
 https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/54773/20220311-versailles-declaration-en.pdf 
 and the Conclusion adopted by the European Council on 9 February 2023 
 (9) 
 https://commission.europa.eu/system/files/2023-02/COM_2023_62_2_EN_ACT_A%20Green%20Deal%20Industrial%20Plan%20for%20the%20Net-Zero%20Age.pdf 
 (10) 
 COM(2023) 160 final 
 (11) 
 More information on the package is available at: https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_21_3541 
 (12) 
 Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of [date] 2023 concerning batteries and waste batteries, amending Directive 2008/98/EC and Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and repealing Directive 2006/66/EC (OJ L […]). The proposal for a new Regulation on batteries addresses automotive batteries and contains a comprehensive new legal regime covering their whole life cycle, designed to address their environmental footprint. The revision of the ELV and 3R TA Directives will not contain provisions regulating the design, production and end-of-life of batteries. It will address vehicles as a whole as well as their parts and components, in a way which complements the proposal for a Batteries regulation and would ensure that the overall environmental footprint of vehicles is addressed. 
 (13) 
 COM(2022)144 
 (14) 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for setting Ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and repealing Directive 2009/125/EC, COM(2022)142 final, 2022/0095 (COD). Requirements on the circular design and production of motor vehicles should build on the exiting legal framework applying to vehicles, which are set out and enforced through the “type-approval” process. This is therefore a separate legal framework than the one set out under the upcoming ESPR instrument. Consistency between the two legal instruments should nevertheless be ensured to ensure a high level of ambition for the transition of this sector to a circular economy. The ESPR also does not deal with the end-of-life phase of the vehicle, vehicle component or material used in the vehicle, which are subject to the ELV Directive. 
 (15) 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on shipments of waste and amending Regulations (EU) No 1257/2013 and (EU) No 2020/1056, COM(2021) 709 final, 2021/0367(COD). On this point, the revision would in particular aim to ensure, in line with the proposal on waste shipments, that ELVs (which if untreated are hazardous waste) cannot be exported outside the OECD countries. 
 (16) 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EU) 2019/631 (COM(2021) 556 final) 
 (17) 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, with respect to their emissions and battery durability (Euro 7) 
 (18) 
 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/13132-Vehicle-safety-revising-the-EUs-roadworthiness-package_en 
 (19) 
 The definition of ‘waste’ in the ELV Directive is in line with the general definition of waste used in EU legislation, whereby waste means “any substance or object which the holder discards or intends or is required to discard”. Old collection cars which are kept on the premises of individuals are not considered as ELVs as there is no intention to discard them from the side of their owner. 
 (20) 
 See Article 10a of Directive 2018/849/EU, OJ 150, 30.5.2018, p. 93 
 (21) 
 Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles regarding their reusability, recyclability and recoverability (“3R type-approval Directive”) 
 (22) 
 Regulation (EU) 2018/858 on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles 
 (23) 
 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/1912-End-of-life-vehicles-evaluating-the-EU-rules_en 
 (24) 
 See Annex 11 of this report 
 (25) 
 https://www.acea.auto/figure/key-figures-eu-auto-industry/ 
 (26) 
 More information available at: 
 https://www.eurofer.eu/publications/economic-market-outlook/economic-and-steel-market-outlook-2022-2023-third-quarter/ 
 (27) 
 Based on JRC study report on recycled content of plastics in the vehicles. 
 (28) 
 CRM_2020_Factsheets_critical_Final.pdf (europa.eu) 
 (29) 
 CRM_2020_Factsheets_non-critical_Final.pdf (europa.eu) 
 (30) 
 More information available at: https://www.etrma.org/rubber-goods/ 
 (31) 
 More information available at: 
 https://glassforeurope.com/the-sector/key-data/ 
 (32) 
 Rare earth elements (REEs) are mainly used for permanent magnets in EVs (average weight of 1-2 kg of permanent magnets per EV); platinum group metals (PGMs) are used for catalytic converters (77% share in automotive catalysts) and printed circuit boards; gallium is used for lighting equipment and integrated circuits; magnesium (50% share in automotive sector) and niobium (23% share in automotive steel) are used for metal alloys; and natural rubber for production of tyres. Electric and electronic systems in vehicles also contain additional precious metals, PGMs, gallium, tantalum, and REE. 
 (33) 
 R.G. Billy, D.B. Muller, Aluminium use in passenger cars poses systemic challenges for recycling and GHG emissions, Resources, Conservation & Recycling 190 (2023), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2022.106827 
 (34) 
 Conzade, Julian, et al., 2021. Why the future automotive future is electric. McKinsey Center for Future Mobility. 
 https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/automotive-and-assembly/our-insights/why-the-automotive-future-is-electric 
 (35) 
 For steel, with significant ongoing decarbonisation investments in electric arc furnaces (EAF), ELV steel scraps typically contain too much copper hindering scrap utilisation rates. Combined with increasing demand of flat products with even lower copper tolerances by the automotive industry, this is a hindrance to higher recycled content rates leading to use of primary units to dilute and to significant loss of economic value (see also Material Economics (2020), Preserving value in EU industrial materials - A value perspective on the use of steel, plastics, and aluminium, EIT – Climate KIC). 
 (36) 
 Increasing secondary raw materials is hindered by the switch from cast to wrought alloys. In the case of aluminium, the transition to EVs requires lower alloying levels for wrought aluminium alloys than currently available in (ELV) aluminium scraps, posing a real and significant risk of mixed aluminium scrap surpluses especially for high EV deployment scenarios, whereby high energy intensity materials cannot be recycled to their full potential. 
 (37) 
 Article 4(1)(b) and (c) of the ELV Directive. 
 (38) 
 https://www.iso.org/standard/35061.html 
 (39) 
 Such incentives are being established at the EU level for batteries and packaging, based on the provisions of the Waste Framework Directive (Article 8a) on the “modulation of fees” foreseen for “extended producer responsibility schemes”, in line with the polluter pays principle set out in Article 191(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). 
 (40) 
 In 2019, the average weight of an ELV was estimated at 1137 kg (based on reports by Member States). 
 (41) 
 Collected at the authorized treatment facilities (ATFs). 
 (42) 
 These figures exclude tyres, battery casings and the plastic sheathing of wiring harnesses. 
 (43) 
 This is also the case of other CRM (e.g., niobium or magnesium) that are integrated as alloying elements in basic metals (steel or copper) and are currently not targeted in the recycling processes. 
 (44) 
 Such as bumpers, dashboards and windshields. 
 (45) 
 The Waste Framework Directive defines backfilling as “any recovery operation where suitable non- hazardous waste is used for purposes of reclamation in excavated areas or for engineering purposes in landscaping. Waste used for backfilling must substitute non-waste materials, be suitable for the aforementioned purposes, and be limited to the amount strictly necessary to achieve those purposes”. 
 (46) 
 This is firstly due to shortcomings in the reporting foreseen in Commission Decision 2005/293/EC of 1 April 2005 laying down detailed rules on the monitoring of the reuse/recovery and reuse/recycling targets set out in Directive 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on end-of-life vehicles. In addition, this methodology has not been adapted to reflect the improvements introduced at the EU level for other waste streams, as laid down in Article 11a of the Waste Framework Directive for municipal waste, and in Article 6a of Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste. 
 (47) 
 See: 
 https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1765 
 (48) 
 Umweltbundesamt,(2022), Illegal treatment of end of-life vehicles - Assessment of the environmental, micro- and macroeconomic effects, texte 130/20 22 
 (49) 
 https://www.ilent.nl/documenten/rapporten/2020/10/26/rapport--used-vehicles-exported-to-africa 
 (50) 
 As it is explained in Recital 3 of Directive 2014/45/EU, the roadworthiness testing is a part of a wider regime designed to ensure that vehicles are kept in a safe and environmentally acceptable condition during their use; Recital 6: Vehicles with malfunctioning technical systems have an impact on road safety and may contribute to road crashes involving injuries or fatalities. Moreover, as it is further explained in Recital 22, Roadworthiness tests cover all items relevant to the specific design, construction and equipment of the tested vehicle. Compatibility between parts and components, such as between wheels and wheel hubs, should be treated as a critical safety item and should be checked during roadworthiness testing. 
 (51) 
 https://ec.europa.eu/environment/pdf/waste/shipments/correspondents_guidelines9_en.pdf 
 (52) 
 https://www.unep.org/resources/report/global-trade-used-vehicles-report 
 (53) 
 The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS 8 ) adopted on 5 September 2020 a Directive limiting the import of used vehicles to a minimum Euro 4/IV emission standard. The age limit for importing vehicles into the region is five years for light-duty vehicles, two-wheel motor vehicles, tricycles and quadricycles and 10 years for heavy-duty vehicles. 
 (54) 
 https://ec.europa.eu/environment/pdf/waste/shipments/correspondents_guidelines9_en.pdf 
 (55) 
 for example, insurance companies which own a large share of accidented vehicles 
 (56) 
 Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers and repealing Directive 2009/40/EC 
 (57) 
 Motor vehicles used for the carriage of goods and with a maximum mass not exceeding 3,5 tonnes (vans). 
 (58) 
 76 % passenger cars (M1 type) and 9 % lorries (N1 type). 
 (59) 
 It should be noted that this impact assessment does not address the situation of e-bikes, ships, planes, trains, agricultural and non-road mobile machinery, and vehicles used for military purposes and space. These vehicles are non-road vehicles, with the exception of non-type approved (electric) bicycles. These are subject to specific regulations. 
 (60) 
 Baron, Y.; Kosińska-Terrade, I.; Loew, C.; Köhler, A.; Moch, K.; Sutter, J.; Graulich, K.; Adjei, F.; Mehlhart, G.: Study to support the impact assessment for the review of Directive 2000/53/EC on End-of-Life Vehicles by Oeko-Institut, June 2023 
 (61) 
 See page 17 in Huisman, J., Bobba, S., “Available for Collection” study on alternative collection targets for waste portable and light means of transport batteries, EUR 30746 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2021, ISBN 978-92-76-39442-6, doi:10.2760/163961, JRC125615. 
 (62) 
 Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of [date] 2023 concerning batteries and waste batteries, amending Directive 2008/98/EC and Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and repealing Directive 2006/66/EC (OJ L […]). 
 (63) 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and repealing Directive 2009/125/EC. 
 (64) 
 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste, amending Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and Directive (EU) 2019/904, and repealing Directive 94/62/EC. 
 (65) 
 SWD(2021)60 
 (66) 
 Also referred to as Heavy Duty Vehicles (HDV), categories as defined in Regulation 2018/858 
 (67) 
 L-category vehicles include light 2-wheel powered vehicles (category L1), three-wheel mopeds (L2), two-wheel motorcycles (L3), two-wheel motorcycles with sidecars (L4), powered tricycles (L5), light quadricycles (L6) and heavy quadricycles (L7) as defined in Regulation 2013/168. The scope considered here excludes L1 and L2. 
 (68) 
 DuckerFrontier, Aluminium content in European Passenger Cars, prepared for European Aluminium, public summary 10.10.2019. 
 (69) 
 R.G. Billy, D.B. Muller, Aluminium use in passenger cars poses systemic challenges for recycling and GHG emissions, Resources Conservation and Recycling 190 (September):106827, March 2023, DOI: 10.1016/j.resconrec.2022.106827. 
 (70) 
 A detailed list of electric traction motor types is available in (JRC, 2023). N. Tazi, M. Orefice, C. Marmy, Y. Baron, M Ljunggren, P Wäger, F. Mathieux, Initial analysis of selected measures to improve the circularity of Critical Raw Materials and other materials in passenger cars, EUR 31468 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-68-01625-1, doi: 10.2760/207541, JRC132821 
 (71) 
 EU Science hub, JRC Raw Materials Information System, https://rmis.jrc.ec.europa.eu/apps/veh/#/v/materials 
 (72) 
 “European Commission, Critical materials for strategic technologies and sectors in the EU - a foresight study, 2020”. 
 (73) 
 https://www.idtechex.com/en/research-article/rare-earths-in-evs-problems-solutions-and-what-is-actually-happening/25071 
 (74) 
 Source: JRC 2023 ongoing CRM project: 
 https://www.intlmag.org/page/3d-demonstrator-2020 
 (75) 
 The automotive sector is the third consumer of virgin plastics in the EU, representing ca. 10% of the consumption, after packaging (34%) and building and construction (24%), see Maury, T., Tazi, N., Torres De Matos, C., Nessi, S., Antonopoulos, I., Pierri, E., Baldassarre, B., Garbarino, E., Gaudillat, P. and Mathieux, F., Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars, EUR 31047 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2022, ISBN 978-92-76-51784-9 (online), doi:10.2838/834615 (online), JRC129008. 
 (76) 
 Estimates are based on data Aeris Europe 2021 and ACEA 2021. 
 (77) 
 Source: study supporting the impact assessment report 
 (78) 
 Regulation (EU) 2019/1242 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 setting CO2 emission performance standards for new heavy-duty vehicles 
 (79) 
 See Annex 15 for more information on this point 
 (80) 
 Baron, Y.; Kosińska-Terrade, I.; Loew, C.; Köhler, A.; Moch, K.; Sutter, J.; Graulich, K.; Adjei, F.; Mehlhart, G.: Study to support the impact assessment for the review of Directive 2000/53/EC on End-of-Life Vehicles by Oeko-Institut, June 2023. 
 (81) 
 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02009R0595-20200901 
 (82) 
 In Annex 4.2.2 the structuring of the options is further explained, including a two-step approach where the effect of policy options 5 to the other options is computed first, before determination of total joint impacts. This approach to prevent ‘circular calculations’ thus complies with the BRG tool #16, Figure 1b. 
 (83) 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 (84) 
 Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles ( OJ L 151, 14.6.2018, p. 1–218.) 
 (85) 
 with a specific focus on declaration of indicative weights, locations, fastening and coating techniques as well of labelling of CRMs such as Neodymium and Dysprosium in e-drive motors 
 (86) 
 Including the shares of post-consumer, pre-consumer and closed loop percentages derived from ELV treatment on a mass-balance basis. 
 (87) 
 Or, for substances identified as Persistent Organic Pollutants, these would be covered under the Regulation on Persistent Organic Pollutants. 
 (88) 
 Based on the results of provisional 1 st reading agreement 9 December 2022: 
 https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20221205IPR60614/batteries-deal-on-new-eu-rules-for-design-production-and-waste-treatment 
 (89) 
 For more information see Suggestion 6 at 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 ; 
 (90) 
 Allowing an in depth assessment of alternatives and of their socio-economic impacts, similar to that carried out under REACH. 
 (91) 
 Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of [date] 2023 concerning batteries and waste batteries, amending Directive 2008/98/EC and Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and repealing Directive 2006/66/EC (OJ L […]). 
 (92) 
 COM(2022) 142 final 
 (93) 
 COM(2022) 586 final 
 (94) 
 CPA. (2021). Guidance on Waste Definitions (Issue September). https://ec.europa.eu/docsroom/documents/46954/attachments/8/translations/en/renditions/native 
 (95) 
 Type approval means the procedure whereby a Member State certifies that a type of vehicle, system, component or separate technical unit satisfies the relevant administrative provisions and technical requirements; (art.3, Directive 2007/46/EC). 
 (96) 
 See the proposals for a Regulation on packaging and packaging waste, the Single Use Plastics Directive, the proposed Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation and the Battery Regulation. 
 (97) 
 See Section 4.2.3 of the JRC supporting study: Maury, T., Tazi, N., Torres De Matos, C., Nessi, S., Antonopoulos, I., Pierri, E., Baldassarre, B., Garbarino, E., Gaudillat, P. and Mathieux, F., Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars, EUR 31047 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2022, ISBN 978-92-76-51784-9 (online), doi:10.2838/834615 (online), JRC129008. 
 (98) 
 Thermoplastics (e.g., polyolefins, styrenics, polyamides) as well as polyurethane foams. 
 (99) 
 This corresponds with scenario JRC3a in in the respective study (JRC129008). 
 (100) 
 This corresponds with the scenario JRC4b in the Annex of the study (JRC129008). 
 (101) 
 This corresponds with the scenario JRC4c in the Annex of the study (JRC129008). 
 (102) 
 Backfilling is a recovery operation where suitable waste is used for reclamation purposes in excavated areas or for engineering purposes in landscaping and where the waste is a substitute for non-waste materials 
 (103) 
 Currently, 4 Member States already ban the disposal in landfills of fractions from post-shredder treatment. 
 (104) 
 The current ELV Directive lists in Annex I (4) batteries, large metal components (such as engines and gear boxes), large plastic components (bumpers, dashboard, fluid containers), catalysts, glass (including windshields, rear and side windows). 
 (105) 
 For more information see Suggestion 7 at 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 (106) 
 The additional parts would include e.g., main wiring harness (copper), electric and electronic components (such as printed circuit boards with a surface area > 10 cm2, photovoltaic panels with a surface area > 0.2 m 2 , controllers, engine motors), mono-material aluminium components with a weight > 10 kg, requiring the separate collection and treatment of cast and wrought aluminium, e.g., bumpers, wheels, heat exchangers, NdFeB permanent magnets, electric steel and copper from EV drive train in case not destined for (preparation for) reuse/remanufacturing. 
 (107) 
 See for example the measure established in France that requires garage and repair shops to provide offers for used spare parts together with new spare parts to their customers (see Article L224-67 of the “Code de la Consommation”, available at 
 https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/codes/article_lc/LEGIARTI000032226565/2018-01-19 
 ). 
 (108) 
 Applying to ELV thermoplastics and polyurethanes. 
 (109) 
 The WEEE Directive Art 5 requires separate collection for such products and Art 8/ Annex VII specifies selective treatment requirements. 
 (110) 
 This would include difficult to recycle lightweight materials such as glass and carbon fibre reinforced plastics, as well as smaller copper and EEE parts, small motors, inverters, etc. 
 (111) 
 Complementing Commission Decision 2005/293/EC. 
 (112) 
 RegHub consultation on the implementation of the end-of-life vehicle Directive, 2022: 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 (113) 
 Notably through deposit return schemes whereby financial support is provided to the last owner of a vehicle upon its delivery to an ATF. Such schemes are in place in a number of EU Member States already. 
 (114) 
 This should include information on the motives for which vehicles are permanently removed from the register (treatment as an ELV in an ATF, export, theft, etc.), as well as a requirement for the owner of a vehicle which is “temporarily de-registered” to report changes on the ownership of the vehicle in question to the registration authority. 
 (115) 
 For example through the use of the European Vehicle and Driving Licence Information System (Eucaris). 
 (116) 
 For more information see Suggestion 3, 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 (117) 
 For more information see Suggestion 2, 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 (118) 
 For example on limitations of imports linked to the age or compliance with emission standards of used vehicles 
 (119) 
 There are already provisions on cost coverage of delivery/take-back of an ELV by producers (Article 5(4) ELVD). Although not a fully-fledged EPR scheme, the basics of cost coverage already exist and are explicitly referred to in the WFD (article 8a(4)). This means that PO5 would not necessarily entail starting up completely new EPR schemes 
 (120) 
 See Articles 8 and 8a of the Waste Framework Directive (Directive (EU) 2018/851). 
 (121) 
 For more information see Suggestion 7 at 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 ; 
 (122) 
 Ibid. 
 (123) 
 For more information see Suggestion 5 at 
 https://cor.europa.eu/en/our-work/Pages/Fit-for-Future-opinion-on-End-of-life-vehicles-and-3R-type-approval.aspx 
 ; RegHub consultation on the implementation of the end-of-life vehicle Directive, 2022; 
 (124) 
 Directive (EU) 2019/1161 
 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive 2009/33/EC on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles (OJ L 188, 12.7.2019, p. 116–130). A review of this Directive is foreseen by the end of 2027. 
 (125) 
 Vehicles of categories L3-L7, M2, M3, N2, N3 and O. 
 (126) 
 Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence and amending Directive (EU) 2019/1937 (COM/2022/71 final) 
 (127) 
 Baron, Y.; Kosińska-Terrade, I.; Loew, C.; Köhler, A.; Moch, K.; Sutter, J.; Graulich, K.; Adjei, F.; Mehlhart, G.: Study to support the impact assessment for the review of Directive 2000/53/EC on End-of-Life Vehicles by Oeko-Institut, June 2023 
 (128) 
 Maury, T., Tazi, N., Torres De Matos, C., Nessi, S., Antonopoulos, I., Pierri, E., Baldassarre, B., Garbarino, E., Gaudillat, P. and Mathieux, F., Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars, EUR 31047 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-76-51784-9 (online), doi:10.2838/834615 (online), JRC129008 
 (129) 
 N. Tazi, M. Orefice, C. Marmy, Y. Baron, M Ljunggren, P Wäger, F. Mathieux, Initial analysis of selected measures to improve the circularity of Critical Raw Materials and other materials in passenger cars, EUR 31468 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-68-01625-1, doi: 10.2760/207541, JRC132821. 
 (130) 
 Commission Staff Working Document accompanying the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on type-approval of motor vehicles and of engines and of systems, component and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, with respect to their emission and battery durability (Euro 7) 
 (131) 
 More information on the projections used in the SWD are explained in Annex 4. 
 (132) 
 Maury, T., Tazi, N., Torres De Matos, C., Nessi, S., Antonopoulos, I., Pierri, E., Baldassarre, B., Garbarino, E., Gaudillat, P. and Mathieux, F., Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars, EUR 31047 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2022, ISBN 978-92-76-51784-9 (online), doi:10.2838/834615 (online), JRC129008 
 (133) 
 Corresponds with the scenario JRC3a of the JRC study (JRC129008). 
 (134) 
 Corresponds with the scenario JRC4b in the Annex of the study (JRC129008). 
 (135) 
 Corresponds with the scenario JRC4c in the Annex of the study (JRC129008). 
 (136) 
 Recycling quality improvements of PO3 are not overlapping with the allocation of plastics recycling benefits of PO2 to avoid double counting. 
 (137) 
 N. Tazi, M. Orefice, C. Marmy, Y. Baron, M Ljunggren, P Wäger, F. Mathieux, Initial analysis of selected measures to improve the circularity of Critical Raw Materials and other materials in passenger cars, EUR 31468 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-68-01625-1, doi: 10.2760/207541, JRC132821. 
 (138) 
 For the assessment of magnitude of possible external costs associated with the export of used non-roadworthy vehicles from the EU to third countries, see the Handbook on the External Costs of Transport: European Commission, Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, Essen, H., Fiorello, D., El Beyrouty, K., et al., Handbook on the external costs of transport: version 2019 – 1.1, Publications Office, 2020, https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2832/51388 
 (139) 
 https://apps.who.int/iris/rest/bitstreams/1091390/retrieve 
 (140) 
 If the vehicle is imported at an age of 5 years, it will possibly last another 25 years in the country of destination before becoming an ELV. An imported vehicle with an age of 18 years might last another 12 years in the receiving country before becoming waste. Thus, the waste generated for the same service is twice as much when old vehicles are imported. 
 (141) 
 For more information on these aspects, see section 6.12 in Baron, Y.; Kosińska-Terrade, I.; Loew, C.; Köhler, A.; Moch, K.; Sutter, J.; Graulich, K.; Adjei, F.; Mehlhart, G.: Study to support the impact assessment for the review of Directive 2000/53/EC on End-of-Life Vehicles by Oeko-Institut, June 2023 
 (142) 
 Based on the JRC study, see Maury, T., Tazi, N., Torres De Matos, C., Nessi, S., Antonopoulos, I., Pierri, E., Baldassarre, B., Garbarino, E., Gaudillat, P. and Mathieux, F., Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars, EUR 31047 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2022, ISBN 978-92-76-51784-9 (online), doi:10.2838/834615 (online), JRC129008 
 (143) 
 Corresponds with scenario 4b in the JRC study. 
 (144) 
 Corresponds with scenario 4c in the JRC study. 
 (145) 
 https://climate.ec.europa.eu/eu-action/eu-emissions-trading-system-eu-ets_en 
 (146) 
 European Commission, Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, Essen, H., Fiorello, D., El Beyrouty, K., et al., Handbook on the external costs of transport: version 2019 – 1.1, Publications Office, 2020 
 (147) 
 N. Tazi, M. Orefice, C. Marmy, Y. Baron, M Ljunggren, P Wäger, F. Mathieux, Initial analysis of selected measures to improve the circularity of Critical Raw Materials and other materials in passenger cars, EUR 31468 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-68-01625-1, doi: 10.2760/207541, JRC132821. 
 (148) 
 Baron, Y.; Kosińska-Terrade, I.; Loew, C.; Köhler, A.; Moch, K.; Sutter, J.; Graulich, K.; Adjei, F.; Mehlhart, G.: Study to support the impact assessment for the review of Directive 2000/53/EC on End-of-Life Vehicles by Oeko-Institut, June 2023 
 (149) 
 Except for the recycled content related GHG savings of PO2 and its financial relevancy for the future functioning of ETS / CBAM, the other GHG savings cannot be attributed unambiguously to individual economic operators and thus not be directly capitalised using available financial instruments. Therefore ‘monetised GHG savings’ is used in below tables except in the case of PO2 where ‘avoided CO2 taxation under ETS’ is used to illustrate its attribution potential. This approach is in line with quantifying non-market benefits as described in Tool 14 of the Better Regulation Guidance and Tool 23 related to monetising environmental impacts for the purpose of Cost Benefit Analysis and the BCR as determined in Section 7.1 
 (150) 
 European Commission, Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, Essen, H., Fiorello, D., El Beyrouty, K., et al., Handbook on the external costs of transport: version 2019 – 1.1, Publications Office, 2020, https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2832/51388 
 (151) 
 N. Tazi, M. Orefice, C. Marmy, Y. Baron, M Ljunggren, P Wäger, F. Mathieux, Initial analysis of selected measures to improve the circularity of Critical Raw Materials and other materials in passenger cars, EUR 31468 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-68-01625-1, doi: 10.2760/207541, JRC132821. 
 (152) 
 Or, for substances identified under the Stockholm convention as Persistent Organic Pollutants, addressed under the POPs Regulation [Regulation (EU) 2019/1021] 
 (153) 
 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/12633-End-of-life-vehicles-revision-of-EU-rules/public-consultation_en 
 (154) 
 Notably linked to the future share of steel long products in electric vehicles, which are the best candidates for such incorporation 
 (155) 
 EuRIC-European Recycling Industries’ Confederation, BVSE - Bundesverband Sekundärrohstoffe und Entsorgung 
 (156) 
 Umweltbundesamt,(2022), Illegal treatment of end of-life vehicles - Assessment of the environmental, micro- and macroeconomic effects, texte 130/20 22 
 (157) 
 The guidance provided in Tool 16 of the BRG (figure 1b in page 118), ie assessing measures for each objective first separately and selecting the best ones which should feature in the preferred package and then compute the synergies, is followed. This is applied with a computational order in the impact assessment as explained in Annex 4.2.2 
 (158) 
 Costs related to enforcement measures M17,M19 and M21 are specified in Annex 3.2 in Table 3.5 in detail. 
 (159) 
 Digital reporting on certificate of destruction; exchange of information from national vehicle registries via digital means; interoperability with single windows system to allow customs to act on export-related measures 
 (160) 
 The sensitivity analysis shows for the EU as a whole, the EPR fee may range between 3 EUR and 33 EUR per vehicle placed on the market. See Annex 8.2.5 for more details. 
 (161) 
 Since 2000, under the Horizon 2020 and LIFE, the EU has funded around 100 different projects which have contributed to higher scale of knowledge, expertise in advancement of relevant ELV treatment operations, material recovery. See Annex 12. 
 (162) 
 See, in particular, the costs per vehicle for the preferred package in section 8.2. The average cost of 65 EUR are modest in relation to the purchase price of a vehicle or the additional cost of an EV as compared to a baseline conventional vehicle and constitute a 0.2% increase in case an average sales price of EUR 38,000 is assumed. 
 (163) 
 For more information about the selected suggestions from the F4F opinion see Annexes 1 and 5. 
 (164) 
 Impacts on the affected groups of stakeholders is provided in Annex 3. 
 (165) 
 There is significant synergy between this revision and the general digitalisation of the national vehicle registration system under DG MOVE’s revision of the roadworthiness package and Directive 2014/46/EU on vehicle registration documents. The reduced administrative burden from digitalisation of vehicle registration documents is potentially worth up to 1 EUR per vehicle or 9.8 million EUR of recurrent savings in total when fully implemented. This potential ‘one-out’ saving is fully allocated to DG MOVE’s impact assessment and, despite the synergies, not to this proposal. 
 (166) 
 In 2021, the EU imported 458,769 passenger cars from Türkiye, followed by China (435,080), the United Kingdom (393,410), Japan (401,276), South Korea (377,404), the United States of America (308,506). More information available at: 
 https://www.acea.auto/figure/eu-motor-vehicle-trade-by-vehicle-type-in-units/ 
 , 
 https://www.acea.auto/figure/eu-passenger-car-imports-main-countries-of-origin-in-units/ 
 (167) 
 Maury, T., Tazi, N., Torres De Matos, C., Nessi, S., Antonopoulos, I., Pierri, E., Baldassarre, B., Garbarino, E., Gaudillat, P. and Mathieux, F., Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars, EUR 31047 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2023, ISBN 978-92-76-51784-9 (online), doi:10.2838/834615 (online), JRC129008. 
 (168) 
 The recycled plastics and steel could be sourced from within or outside the EU. 
 (169) 
 i.e. recycled content target, requirement to adopt vehicle-type circularity strategy 
 (170) 
 Umweltbundesamt,(2022), Illegal treatment of end of-life vehicles - Assessment of the environmental, micro- and macroeconomic effects, texte 130/20 22. 
 (171) 
 Netherlands Human Environment and Transport Inspectorate, Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management (2020): Used vehicles exported to Africa: A study on the quality of used export vehicles. 
 (172) 
 For example, specific age limitations for the import of used vehicles have been adopted in 2020 under the umbrella of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The age limit for importing vehicles into the ECOWAS region is 5 years for light duty vehicles, two-wheel motor vehicles, tricycles and quadricycles and 10 years for heavy-duty vehicles. A period of 10 years is granted to countries that have not yet adopted these age limits to gradually comply. See Directive C/Dir.2/09/20 relating to the harmonization of the limits of gas and exhaust particle emission for light and heavy vehicles, two wheel vehicles, tricycles and quadricycles within the ECOWAS region. 
 (173) 
 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/resource.html?uri=cellar:a1c34a56-b314-11eb-8aca-01aa75ed71a1.0001.02/DOC_1&format=PDF 
 (174) 
 This is for example associated with the pollution risks linked, among others, with the informal recycling of lead-acid batteries. 
 (175) 
 See for example reports from International Motor Vehicle Inspection Committee (CITA) for Togo: 
 https://citainsp.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/TogoReportFinalEN.Final_.pdf 
 and for Cameroon: 
 https://citainsp.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/Report_AVIS_Cameroun_final.pdf 
 (176) 
 Especially the United Nations Economic Commissions for Europe (ECE), the International Motor Vehicle Inspection Committee (CITA) and the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA), which have established the “Project of Safer and Cleaner Used Vehicles for Africa”. See https://unece.org/sites/default/files/2023-05/Safer%20and%20Cleaner%20Used%20Vehicles%20for%20Africa%20%28Final%29.pdf 
 (177) 
 https://www.ssatp.org/topics/urban-mobility 
 (178) 
 https://tttfp.org/ 
 (179) 
 https://roadsafetyfund.un.org/ 
 (180) 
 Kenya and Mauritius have for example established and implemented a sophisticated regime governing the import of used vehicles for many years (since 2008 for Kenya and 2017 for Mauritius), which require notably that import is only authorised upon the presentation of a test operated by accredited specialised companies in the exporting country and verifying the roadworthiness of the vehicles concerned. The volume of imported used vehicles has not decreased but the imported vehicles are newer and cleaner. Such comprehensive regimes are not yet in place in most other importing countries, which have only more recently started to set out rules on the import and placing on the market of used vehicles. 
 (181) 
 For more information see Annex 7.2.4. 
 (182) 
 https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=End-of-life_vehicle_statistics#Number_of_end-of-life_vehicles

1_EN_impact_assessment_part2_v3.docx 
 EUROPEAN COMMISSION
 Brussels, 13.7.2023
 SWD(2023) 256 final
 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT
IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT
 ANNEXES 1 TO 6 to the IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT
 Accompanying the document
 Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
 on circularity requirements for vehicle design and on management of end-of-life vehicles, amending Regulations (EU) 2018/858 and 2019/1020 and repealing Directives 2000/53/EC and 2005/64/EC
 {COM(2023) 451 final} - {SEC(2023) 292 final} - {SWD(2023) 255 final} - {SWD(2023) 257 final}
 Contents 
 Annex 1: Procedural information 
 1.1 Lead DG, Decide Planning/CWP references 
 1.2 Organisation and timing 
 1.3 Consultation of the Regulatory Scrutiny Board (RSB) 
 1.4 Evidence, sources and quality 
 Annex 2: Stakeholder consultation (Synopsis report) 
 2.1 Objectives of the consultation 
 2.2 Consultation and method tools 
 2.3. Stakeholder consultation 
 2.3.1. 
 Overview of open public consultation 
 2.3.2. 
 Survey in relation to 3R type-approval Directive 
 2.3.3. 
 Overview of the targeted stakeholder consultation 
 2.3.4. 
 Stakeholder Workshop on 23-24 March 2022 
 2.3.5. 
 Consultation of Member States 
 2.3.6. 
 Follow-up after the workshop and ad-hoc consultation 
 2.4. Key positions of stakeholders on specific topics 
 2.4.1. 
 Circularity 
 2.4.2. 
 Hazardous substances 
 2.4.3. 
 Collection / Missing vehicles 
 2.4.4. 
 EPR System 
 2.4.5. 
 Scope of the ELV Directive 
 2.4.6. 
 3R Type-Approval and its relation to the ELV Directive 
 Annex 3: Who is affected and how? 
 3.1 Introduction 
 3.2 Summary of costs and benefits 
 3.3 Relevant sustainable development goals 
 Annex 4: Analytical methods 
 4.1 Main sources 
 4.2 Structuring of measures and options 
 4.2.1 
 Identification and screening of measures 
 4.2.2 
 Structuring of options and impacts calculation order 
 4.3 Analysis of impacts 
 4.3.1 
 Datasets 
 4.3.2 
 Vehicle composition data 
 4.3.3 
 Number and types of vehicles entering and leaving the fleet 
 4.3.4 
 Recycling 
 4.3.5 
 Data and scenarios for the whereabout of (used) vehicles 
 4.3.6 
 Scope extension 
 4.4 Modelling environmental impacts 
 4.4.1 
 LCA data 
 4.4.2 
 Environmental impact categories 
 4.4.3 
 Data for the modelling of environmental impact from coolants 
 4.5 Modelling the economic impacts 
 4.5.1 
 Main indicators 
 4.5.2 
 Revenues for spare parts removed by ATFs for reuse or separate recycling; 
 Change in revenues (decrease or increase) for recyclates 
 4.6 Modelling the social impacts 
 4.7 Methodological approach for recycled content plastics 
 4.7.1 
 Literature review 
 4.7.2 
 Selected approach for stakeholders’ targeted consultations 
 4.7.3 
 Identification of relevant stakeholders (front-runners and professional associations) 
 4.7.4 
 Interviews state-of-play 
 4.7.5 
 Adaptation for plastics recycling content to fit withing the type-approval framework 
 4.7.6 
 Material & Methods 
 4.8 Methodological approach for recycled content steel 
 4.9 Methodological approach for the CRM assessment – JRC 
 4.10 EPR and compliance cost scenarios 
 Annex 5: Fit For Future Platform Opinion 
 5.1. Suggestions summary 
 5.2. Short description of the legislation analysed 
 5.3. Problem description 
 5.4. Suggestions 
 Annex 6: Problems and drivers 
 6.1. Introduction 
 6.2. Problem area 1: Lack of integration of circularity in vehicle design and production 
 6.2.1 
 What is the key problem? 
 6.2.2 
 What are the key problem drivers? 
 6.2.3 
 How would the problem evolve? 
 6.3. Problem area 2: Lack of quality and quantity in reuse and recycling at end-of-life treatment 
 6.3.1 
 What is the problem? 
 6.3.2 
 What are the problem drivers? 
 6.3.3 
 How would the problem evolve? 
 6.4. Problem area 3: ‘Missing vehicles’ cause environmental impacts 
 6.4.1 
 What is the problem? 
 6.4.2 
 What are the problem drivers? 
 6.4.3 
 How would the problem evolve? 
 6.5. Problem area 4: Lack of EU level playing field to improve circularity in design, production and end-of-life treatment of lorries, buses , m otorcycles 
 6.5.1 
 What is the problem? 
 6.5.2 
 Problem drivers 
 6.5.3 
 How would the problem evolve? 
 Annex 1: Procedural information 
 1.1 Lead DG, Decide Planning/CWP references 
 The preparation of this file was led by DG Environment (ENV), under a co-lead/coordination with DG Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs (GROW) and supported from DG Joint Research Centre D.3 European IPPC Bureau (JRC.D.3). 
 The file essentially comprises a revision of Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles 
 1 
 (“ELV Directive”) and Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 2 
 (“3R type-approval” Directive), which links the requirements on the placing of the market of new vehicles with the provisions of the ELV Directive. 
 This revision takes into account the two evaluations that were performed for the two legal instruments and incorporates as many as possible of those recommendations that have resulted from those evaluations. In addition, the objective of the combined review of the ELV Directive and its mirror 3R type-approval Directive is to update the two instruments to be able to deliver the key objectives of the European Green Deal and Circular Economy Action Plan and to update both legislations to make them fully operational as described in Section 2 (below). 
 Since this file comprises two combined sub-initiatives, they were included under a single entry in DECIDE/Agenda Planning database, as follows: 
 Commission proposal for the revision EU legislation on end-of-life vehicles 
 PLAN/2020/8644 
 1.2 Organisation and timing 
 This joint review of the EU rules on end-of-life vehicles and the 3R type-approval Directive is a deliverable under the European Green Deal 
 3 
 , the Zero Pollution Action Plan 
 4 
 , the Circular Economy Action Plan 
 5 
 (CEAP) and has strong links to the revised in May 2021 Industrial Strategy for Europe 
 6 
 , which in turn built on the 2020 Industrial Strategy. 
 7 
 The Inception Impact Assessment Roadmap was published on 22 October 2020 with a feedback period until 19 November 2020 
 8 
 . 
 Following the conclusions of the evaluation of the EU rules on end-of-life vehicles, which revealed the operational inconsistencies between the ELV Directive and the 3R type-approval Directive, the DG ENV and DG GROW decided to carry a joint review of the two legislations. 
 A 14 week open public consultation, held between 20 July 2021 and 26 October 2021, was published on the Commission E U Survey website 
 9 
 . 
 The Inter Service Steering Group (ISSG) for the Impact Assessment was set up by the DG Environment. It included the following DGs and services: CLIMA (Climate Action), COMP (Competition), CONNECT (Communications Networks, Content and Technology), ENER (Energy), ESTAT (Eurostat), GROW (Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs), INTPA (International Partnerships), JRC (Joint Research Centre), MOVE (Mobility and Transport), NEAR (Neighbourhood and Enlargement), RTD (Research and Innovation), SG (Secretariat-General), SJ (Legal Service), TAXUD (Taxation and Customs Union) and TRADE (Trade). 
 The ISSG has been consulted regarding, and has given input to, key deliverables from the support study, and the joint draft Impact Assessment report on the ELV Directive and 3R type-approval Directive prior to its submission to the Regulatory Scrutiny Board (RSB). This was the case notably at two ISSG meetings which took place on 1 December 2022 and 24 January 2023. 
 1.3 Consultation of the Regulatory Scrutiny Board (RSB ) 
 An informal upstream meeting with the RSB took place on 28 February 2021. 
 After final discussion with the ISC, a draft of the impact assessment was submitted to the RSB on 15 th February 2023 and discussed at a meeting with the RSB on 15 h March 2023. 
 Following the negative opinion of the RSB from 15 March 2023, changes were made to the IA in order to reflect the recommendations of the Board. The table below presents an overview of the RSB's comments and how these have been addressed. 
 Table 1.1a: How RSB comments of the first opinion have been addressed 
 RSB comments 
 How addressed 
 Main findings 
 B(1). Objectives: the report needs to clarify relation of the specific objectives with the general objective of contributing to the competitiveness of the automotive sector 
 The impact assessment report has been changed, so that the contribution of the initiative to the competitiveness of the automotive sector is no longer included among the general objectives of the initiative. As the initiative will however have a number of positive impacts on the competitiveness and resilience of this sector, a new section 8.3 on this point has been added. 
 B(2)Definition of problems: the report is not clear on the key policy choices and the robustness of the evidence informing these choices. 
 Clarifications have been added in section 2 on the definition of the problems and their interrelationships, and in section 8 (as well as in Annex 4) on the interrelationships and synergies between the options contained in the preferred policy package. This responds to the second point raised by the RSB and “point for improvement” C(2). 
 The evidences on the robustness of the choices build on a comprehensive IA support study by Oeko-Institut as well as dedicated studies by the JRC on plastics and CRMs and extensive consultation with stakeholders. This is described in Annex 4. 
 A summary table specifying all measures per policy option in a single overview, their inclusion in the preferred package as well as implementation dates, has been added to section 5.2. 
 B(3) Data analysis: The level of quantitative analysis on the extension of scope of the ELV legislation is not proportionate to the scale of the expected impacts. The report does not sufficiently assess the impacts on competitiveness of affected EU sectors, international partnership countries and the enforcement capacities of Member States. 
 New data and analyses have been added throughout the text concerning the extension of the scope of the current legislation to new vehicles. This is particularly the case for the quantification of the economic and environmental impacts of the preferred option (see in particular sections 6.2.6 and 6.3.6). This is based on new estimates, stemming from dedicated work by the Oeko-Institut on this issue. In addition, a new section has been added in appendix 15 on the relevance of measures to extend the scope of recovery of critical raw materials (CRM). This new section has been prepared by the JRC based on a recently completed study (made available after the first submission). 
 The total administrative burden has been better presented per operator and reduced due to some double counting of one-offs as yearly costs in the tables of the contractor. The detailed tables in the appropriate template are included in Annex 3. No ‘one-out’ costs are identified. The recurring and one-off costs are consistently presented for the policy options. 
 New elements were provided on the impacts of the proposed export measures on importing countries, based in particular on the contributions of INTPA (see section 8.6 and annex 8, section 7.2.4) - the costs of the export measures enforcement and other public authorities are quantified in Section 8.2 and Annex 8. 
 B(4) Comparison of different policy options: the report does not clearly compare the different policy options in terms of effectiveness and efficiency. It does not sufficiently demonstrate that the preferred combination of options is the most proportionate and best performing one. 
 The analysis on the comparison of the effectiveness and efficiency of the options has been considerably reinforced in the impact analysis report (see section 7.2), as well as the demonstration of the performance of the preferred package of options (section 8.2). It includes a cost-benefit analysis in line with the Better Regulation Guidelines incorporating costs for the extended scope as well as the cost-effectiveness assessment moved from the annexes to the main text. 
 The choice of the preferred option for recycled content for steel has been amended and clarified, i.e. by specifying that future legislation will not directly set a mandatory target level but that there should be an empowerment for the Commission to lay down such a target based on a dedicated feasibility study (see section 8.1). 
 What to improve (comments summarised) 
 C(1). The report needs to define important terms and concepts, provide a structured and clear set of general and specific objectives that support competitiveness and enhance EU sectors. The specific objectives must be precise and measurable to track progress and success 
 The definitions of ELVs have been added in section 1.2, the general legal context is described (also in section 1.2) and some terms clarified, like the scope of the L-category vehicles. 
 As indicated above, the expected impacts on the competitiveness of the automotive industry are presented in a dedicated section 8.3. 
 In order to ensure better measurement of progress and success, the specific objectives have been formulated more precisely (see section 4.2), to allow for an assessment of the performance of the preferred package of options in the future. 
 C(2). The report should clearly outline policy options and specify if the policymaker can prioritize specific issues by selecting a limited set of interventions from various areas, leading to alternative combinations of measures. Additionally, the report should evaluate and compare these alternatives against the baseline for effectiveness, efficiency, and proportionality. 
 The specific features and interlinkages between the problems and associated objectives have been described more in details in section 2.1, stressing the importance of treating them in a consistent and mutually supportive manner. The interplay between each best performing option and their synergies is also explained in more details in sections 8.1 and 8.2. This provides policy makers with additional information on the rationale for the preferred package. 
 The impact assessment identifies a set of problems, as well as objectives and options designed to address each of these problems separately, with a dedicated assessment of their impacts. This provides clear information for policy makers on all problems and ways to address them. Based on the methodology foreseen in the Better Regulation Guidelines, the report shows that the preferred package of options is the best performing one to address all problems, both individually and taken together, in view of their synergies. In that regard, and in line with the Better Regulation Guidelines, alternative combinations of options have not been assessed in the report, but the information that is contains on each option could be used by policy makers to evaluate alternative solutions. 
 C(3) The report needs to clarify why EU-wide Extended Producer Responsibility schemes were not considered and how banning the export of vehicles aligns with the waste hierarchy. 
 It should also explain the environmental impact of this ban, specifically the increased number of vehicles left in the EU requiring ELV disposal. 
 Regarding the choice to discard the option of individual and/or collective EU-wide Extended Producer Responsibility schemes, additional explanations have been provided in the revised version of the report and in Annex 7.3.5). This measure is discarded mostly for subsidiarity reasons as it would represent a direct intervention at the EU level on the organisation and governance of the waste management sectors and operators which are currently dealt with by Member States. The existence of national vehicles registers and the absence of EU financial and human resources to assume new tasks linked to the running and supervision of EU EPR schemes also make this option unrealistic in the current context. 
 With regard to setting requirements for export vehicles that can still be used in third countries, the report has been complemented with data exposing the environmental and road safety consequences of the current patterns of export of used vehicles from the EU, where no distinction is made between roadworthy and non-roadworthy vehicles. The export measures are justified by the need to address the EU environmental footprint linked to such practices, consistent with the EU environmental policy, as reflected notably in the EU Zero Pollution Action Plan. This is also supportive of efforts at global level and by importing countries for trade in cleaner and safer used vehicles. These measures are not inconsistent with the EU waste policy as they will avoid that the dismantling of a large number of used vehicles originating from the EU takes place in substandard conditions at the end of their life (which associated pollution risks linked for example to informal recycling of lead-acid batteries). 
 The report provides also more information on the environmental impacts of these measures in the EU, including quantified estimates on increased vehicle quantities used that would be subject to ELV treatment in the EU, as described in Section 8.6 and Annex 8, Section 7.2.4. 
 C(4). The report needs to improve the impact analysis by ensuring that the quantitative analysis matches the expected impacts. It should quantify the costs and benefits of extending the scope of the ELV legislation, and if this is not possible, explain why and discuss the quality of available evidence. The report should clarify how much of an evidence-based decision can be made based on available information and what the risks are if cost estimates are absent. 
 The revised report now includes a more detailed and better quantified analysis of the costs and benefits associated with options for extending the scope of ELV legislation. Where quantification has not been possible or proportionate, the report explains why and provides a qualitative assessment of the options at stake. 
 C(5). The report needs to enhance its impact analysis. It should be transparent about the impact on competitiveness, particularly for the automotive sector, and clarify the total costs of the preferred option for EU vehicle manufacturers. The report should also assess the impact on international partner countries and evaluate if an export ban would reduce mobility options, particularly for vulnerable groups, or result in trade diversion with potentially polluting vehicles imported from other third countries. Additionally, the report should assess the impact on Member States' enforcement capacities and clarify how. 
 The revised version provides an enhanced analysis of the impacts of the various options analysed. It contains notably more information on the impact of the preferred package on the competitiveness of the automotive sector. The total costs resulting from the preferred option for EU vehicle manufacturers and other operators have also been clarified, including quantitative estimates and qualitative assessments of non-quantified costs and as costs per vehicle detailed further in the Annexes. 
 Regarding impacts on international partner countries, the report has been completed with case studies data from countries which have been imposing strict and comprehensive import measures for many years already (see section 8.4 and Annex 7.2.4). 
 The report also assesses, as part of the administrative burden, the impact on Member States' enforcement capacities and clarified how the administrative burden is estimated, taking into account the One In, One Out approach. 
 C(6).The report should analyse and explicitly present the distribution of impacts and show who will benefit from this initiative and who will bear the costs, taking into account that the overall net benefit of the initiative is critically linked to credited CO2 savings. 
 The revised version contains an analysis of the distribution of impacts among stakeholders, explicitly presenting who will benefit and bear the costs of the initiative (with a breakdown of the expected costs and benefits for each group). The report integrates the CO 2 savings as part of the overall monetised benefits of the preferred package. 
 C(7). The report should provide a clear comparison of options, mainly in terms of effectiveness and efficiency. It should present the cost-benefit analysis (net impacts and Benefit Cost Ratios) for each option (and relevant combinations thereof) to allow for a solid comparison of options which in turn can support the selection and justification of the preferred set of measures. The total net impact and Benefit Cost Ratio of the preferred option should be presented. The comparison should bring together all monetised and non-monetised 
 impacts – economic, environmental and social. The integration of environmental benefits in the analysis should be transparent and consistent. 
 The revised version of the report includes a cost-benefit ratio analysis for each option, as well as a more developed assessment of their effectiveness, coherence and proportionality and the underlying assessment. The total net impact and the benefit-cost ratio of the preferred option are also presented in Section 8.5. The environmental benefits are explained and, except when this was not possible, quantified. 
 Additionally, the revised report includes a comparison of all monetised and non-monetised impacts, including economic, environmental and social impacts. 
 C(8).The report should improve the explanation of its methodological approach and the analytical clarity throughout. All the key assumptions and data should be explained. The report should present the aggregated and disaggregated estimates in a way that it is clear how the figures relate to one another. 
 References to the supporting study and presentation need to be improved. 
 The report now provides a more detailed explanation of the key assumptions and data used in the analysis. It also presents aggregated and disaggregated estimates in a concise manner, making it easier to understand the relationship between the numbers. 
 In addition, the Annexes to the report present all estimates in a disaggregated manner with greater granularity, making it easier to understand how the figures relate to one another. The report explains all key assumptions and data used in the analysis, providing readers with greater transparency and ensuring that the report's conclusions are based on sound evidence. 
 The supporting study and other supporting document are presented in Annex 4 and referred to throughout the document, when the measures proposed or the analysed impacts are based on these document. 
 Resubmission 
 A revised Impact Assessment was submitted to the Regulatory Scrutiny Board on 28 th of April 2023. The Regulatory Scrutiny Board (RSB) of the European Commission assessed the revised Impact Assessment and issued a positive opinion with reservations on the 16 th of May 2023. 
 The Board’s main findings were the following and these were addressed in the final impact assessment report as indicated below in Table 1.1b. 
 Table 1.1b: How RSB comments of the second opinion have been addressed 
 RSB comments 
 How addressed 
 Main findings 
 (1) The report should explain the differences between used vehicles, waste and vehicles without a roadworthiness certificate and carry this differentiation throughout the text. 
 Differences are explained in Section 2.3.2. of the IA report and Annex 6.4.2. in particular analysing the regulatory failures related to the waste, used vehicles and the distinction with ELVs, the relevance of the roadworthiness certificate. 
 It should better demonstrate that requiring a roadworthiness certificate for exporting used cars is the best option in view of other potential available alternative measures (e.g. based on age of the vehicle). 
 Importance of use of the roadworthiness certificate was clarified in the Section 2.3.2 of the impact assessment report, by explaining that the roadworthiness certificate is an essential part of the EU regime designed to ensure that vehicles are kept in a safe and environmentally acceptable condition during their use. Directive 2014/45/EU specifies the minimum elements which have to be tested, in order for a vehicle to obtain a certificate. While these requirements are a condition for a vehicle to be used on EU roads, a prerequisite for a vehicle to have a valid roadworthiness certificate is considered to be the best option in regulating export of used vehicles without creating additional administrative burden, as it builds on already available documentation. 
 It should clarify if different roadworthiness requirements are set by different Member States and if this would influence the internal market for exporting used vehicles to third countries. 
 As it is explained in Section 2.3.2, Directive 2014/45/EU sets minimum mandatory elements which have to be tested, in order for a vehicle to obtain a roadworthiness certificate. Therefore, the mandatory scope of roadworthiness requirements is harmonised at the EU level. Additionally, each Member State shall recognise the roadworthiness certificate issued by other Member State, in accordance with Directive 2014/45/EU, which thus ensures the smooth functioning of the internal market. 
 It should explain why the applicable regulations of the recipient country are not deemed sufficient in determining whether an export should be permitted. 
 Additional clarifications have been added to the sections describing the problems and drivers on the issue (Section 2.3.1. and Annexes 6.4.1, 7.2.4. under the description of M21 - export requirements for used vehicles linked to roadworthiness certificate). The text explains why the regulations of the recipient countries are not deemed sufficient, which is mostly related to the situation that currently there are no global standards or consolidated import requirements that would be commonly applied by the recipient countries. There are destination countries which are currently not requiring vehicles to meet certain safety standards, such as the presence of airbags. Furthermore, the enforcement by the third parties of adopted import requirements is not always effectively ensured compromising the quality of used vehicles imported into the region, resulting in negative consequences on the environment, health, and road safety, as well as additional costs. These facts prove the necessity to establish a mechanism on stetting binding requirements for used vehicles which are subject to be exported from the EU to third countries, including the non-OECD countries. An additional measure describing these alternatives is added to the list of discarded measures (M47a). 
 (2) The report should discuss the (global) environmental footprint of discarding vehicles as waste by banning their export that could still be used in third countries where different legal requirements and standards allow this. It should demonstrate how this is compatible with the waste hierarchy and if a potential better end-of-life treatment of the vehicle in the EU outweighs the impacts resulting from the extension of its lifetime when further used in third countries from a lifecycle perspective. The report should better demonstrate the coherence with the European Commission circular economy strategy and action plan. 
 The coherence of export measures with the CEAP, including their contribution to the implementation of the ‘waste hierarchy’ has been substantiated in the Section 8.6 of the IA report, as well as Annex 7.2.4., where the comprehensive background information is provided on the challenges global trade of used vehicles, and the actions taken by the import countries to mitigate negative consequences associated with the export of used vehicles, with the aim to continue receiving used vehicles that could be placed in service for further use on the market of third country. 
 (3) The report should better justify the difference in approach for setting targets for recycled content for steel compared to the measure proposed for setting targets for aluminium and Critical Raw Materials. It should explain how the envisaged feasibility studies will subsequently inform the impact assessment and comparison of alternative targets and related policy choices when preparing the corresponding implementing measures. 
 The differences between the two feasibility studies is explained in Annex 7.2. for M10 respectively M11 and in the main SWD in Section 5.2.2. The study for steel focuses at the technical feasibility to determine an appropriate target level, whereas the study for other material has a wider scope in assessing wider economic feasibility elements. 
 (4) The report should better explain why the option of EU-level Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is discarded while Member State level EPR is required given the EU-wide, cross-border, nature of the motor vehicle market. 
 There is a difference between a single EU wide EPR scheme triggering various subsidiarity and feasibility concerns, versus cross-border EPR supporting measures that facilitate EU wide coordination between schemes. The justification for the discard is sufficiently specified with the three main arguments listed on page 36. An additional reference to the reasons for discarding the related M48 in Section 5.3 is added to the description in Annex 7.3.6 to improve traceability. 
 (5) The report should be clearer on the distributional impacts, in particular on who is likely to benefit from the estimated CO2 credits as their final allocation seems to be instrumental in identifying how the different categories of stakeholders, including consumers, will be affected by the preferred policy package. 
 Except for the recycled content related GHG savings of PO2 and the financial relevance for the future functioning of CBAM, the other GHG savings cannot be attributed unambiguously to individual economic operators and not be reflected in currently existing financial instruments. 
 More consistent use of the terms ‘GHG savings’ when credits are not directly attributable versus ‘avoided CO 2 taxation under ETS’ when they can be attributed financially is improved in the report in Section 7.1 and 7.2, the Glossary (link to ETS framework) and footnote 147 are improved accordingly. 
 The approach to monetise the external costs related to total GHG savings as ‘societal benefits’ is in line with the BRG instructions for the Cost-Benefits Approach following the externalisation of costs in the DG MOVE handbook. 
 (6) The assumptions and calculations of the administrative costs should be clarified and better presented, including those related to the ‘one in, one out’ approach. The tables in Annex 3 on the administrative costs should come with more explanation and cross-reference with the estimates presented elsewhere. 
 The assumptions related to the administrative costs are moved from Annex 3 to Annex 8.3 following the overview tables describing each individual cost element. 
 Some minor changes are included in these table for administrative costs that are not in the scope of the OIOO approach. Administrative costs for non-preferred options are displayed separately for consistency in detail for the total costs per economic operator and policy option in Annex 8.3. A compact table is added to Section 8.5 specifying the sum of costs under the OIOO approach as well as a quantitative estimate of the effect of streamlining information via digitalisation and alignment with existing reporting practices. 
 The Board notes the estimated costs and benefits of the preferred option in this initiative, as summarised in the attached quantification tables. 
 1.4 Evidence, sources and quality 
 To support the analysis of the different options, the European Commission awarded a support contract to external experts. The consortium of consultants comprised: Oeko-Institut e.V. (Consortium Lead) with Rambøll Management Consulting A/S and the supported by the Mehlhart Consulting 
 10 
 . Evidence was compiled from the evaluation reports of the ELV Directive 
 11 
 and the targeted evaluation of the 3R type-approval Directive, which was carried out in parallel to the impact assessment and presented in a dedicated Annex 11 of this document. Additional supporting evidence was as well as retrieved via specific desk studies and data collection performed, feeding into the overall impact assessment work. 
 Further information is given regarding the evidence bases compiled by the external consultants in the following annexes: 
 1. Annex 2 (Stakeholder consultation synopsis) 
 The external consultants worked in close cooperation with the European Commission throughout the different phases of the study, and partly in consultation with one another throughout the process, particularly in the latter stages of assembling a coherent evidence base and in assessing, screening and adjusting policy measures and options. 
 2. Technical report of the Joint Research Centre (JRC) 
 The Joint Research Centre (JRC), the European Commission’s science and knowledge service, produced a dedicated technical report on recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars 
 12 
 , which results have been directly included into the overall impact assessment of the current review. The work consists in an analysis of data and knowledge on plastics contained in vehicles, current and future practices and on evaluating capacity of the recycling industry to produce adequate quality and quantity of recycled plastics from end-of -life vehicle sources. The objective was to assess technical barriers and opportunities for further uptake of recycled plastics in vehicle. Finally, this study aimed to produce technical proposals for mandatory recycled plastic content targets (with associated levels), and link them with pros, cons and potential implications. These policy options were analysed within a dedicated Section 6 of the Impact Assessment and then discussed in view of their potential integration within the review of the ELV Directive and 3R type-approval Directive. In addition, a second JRC study was produced targeting specific measures related to increased CRM recovery, in alignment with the recently adopted CRM Act 
 13 
 . 
 In 2022, the Fit for Future Platform (F4F) adopted a n 
 opinion 
 14 
 regarding joint revision of the End-of-life vehicles directive and the directive on the 3R type-approval of motor vehicles making the following suggestions: 
 · Suggestion 1: Consider a digital vehicle passport including details on used materials 
 · Suggestion 2: Refine the definitions for end-of-life vehicles and used vehicles/ parts of vehicles 
 · Suggestion 3: Consider full digitalisation of the registration system and (2) installation of a central registration system and/or interoperable systems or ensuring the compatibility and coordination of the registration systems across and within Member States 
 · Suggestion 4: Enforce the certificate of destruction (COD) necessary for deregistration and implement a systemic differentiation between temporary and permanent deregistration 
 · Suggestion 5: Improve implementability of the ELV-Directive's requirements through a reward system for deregistration and/or dismantling 
 · Suggestion 6: Ensure coherence with other legislation, e.g., the Batteries Directive 
 · 2006/66/EC and the REACH Regulation 
 · Suggestion 7: Improve compliance and enforcement possibilities through more realistic targets, common methodologies, and increased producer responsibility 
 The Commission has considered the findings and suggestions of the F4F opinion, and majority of them translated them into set of concrete measures. These namely include extended use of digital means (Vehicle Environmental Passport – suggestion 1), alignment of recycling definitions with the Waste Framework Directive and setting mandatory criteria that would help distinguishing ELVs from used vehicles (suggestion 2), improve interoperability between national vehicle registers with the aim to address the problem “missing vehicles” (suggestion 3), increasing functionality of COD by clarifying its linkage with vehicle de-registration as well adding additional information to vehicle registers (suggestion 4). Setting penalties and inspection requirements partially correspond to suggestion 4, while suggestion 6 on better coherence with sectoral legislation, e.g. Batteries Regulation 
 15 
 , has been addressed in measures considering future regulatory approaches on substances of concern in vehicles. The package of preferred option extensively covers the elements proposed in the suggestion 6, notably setting mandatory used of recycled content, setting material specific targets (e.g. plastic, glass). Impact assessment also considers the suggested ways to improve EPR, monitoring and the overall enforcement of the advanced ELV treatment requirements (removal of parts before shredding). These suggestions are considered to best address the stakeholder concerns and comply with subsidiarity, feasibility, proportionality, effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness criteria. In cases, where suggestions or some elements of these suggestions could not fulfil these criteria, they were not included in the policy options. Such cases mainly concern the aspects related to subsidiarity and feasibility constrains, for example, establish the EU wide Deposit Refund System for vehicles, central EU vehicle registration system, setting financial premiums. The full F4F report is presented in the dedicated Annex 5 of the Staff Working Document. 
 Annex 2: Stakeholder consultation (Synopsis report) 
 2 
 2.1 Objectives of the consultation 
 The Commission completed an evaluation of the Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles (ELV Directive) 
 16 
 in 2021 
 17 
 . Following up on the evaluation, the European Commission initiated work on an impact assessment in support of a review of the ELV Directive. In view of the links between the ELV Directive and the Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 18 
 (“3R type-approval” Directive), a joint review of both Directives was be carried out. The purpose of the impact assessment was to gather and analyse evidence to support review of the EU legislation on end-of-life vehicles. It involved verifying the existence of a problem, identifying its underlying causes, assessing whether EU action is needed, and analysing the advantages and disadvantages of available solutions 
 19 
 . 
 The objective of the consultation process was to ensure that stakeholders' views are sought on all key impact assessment aspects. All inputs (data, information, etc.) from the consultation have been incorporated into the impact assessment at appropriate points and will also be taken into consideration in the resulting legislative proposal. 
 It aimed to collect information from stakeholders in relation to the various problem areas and the measures proposed for achieving the objectives defined for each area and their likely impacts. This information has complemented the information and data gathered through other sources (e.g., literature review, existing policy and position papers, Eurostat data and other statistical data sources, etc.) and supported the analysis of the problem areas, the identification of options addressing the objectives of the review, as well as the analysis of their impact. 
 Mapping of stakeholders 
 The review of the ELV and 3R Type-approval Directives affects a broad spectrum of stakeholders, as requirements for sustainable products in the automotive sector and sound management of waste from ELVs are of relevance for all stakeholders involved in the automotive value chain (designers, producers and their suppliers, retailers, consumers, repairers, waste handlers, recyclers). 
 Therefore, a dedicated mapping was carried out to ensure that all relevant stakeholders are identified and consulted in a structured way, especially in the context of targeted consultation actions. For the public consultation and subsequent consultation activities, stakeholders from relevant groups have been contacted in the context of preparation of the study supporting the Commission Impact Assessment. 
 Stakeholder groups relevant to this public consultation were identified as follow: 
 a) International governance bodies such as UNEP, the Secretariat of the Basel Convention, etc.; 
 b) Government experts from all Member States , particularly environmental agencies/Ministries, registration and type-approval authorities, inspection services, market surveillance bodies, etc.; 
 c) Associations and individual enterprises of the various sectors : 
 · Vehicle and parts manufacturers – automobile industry actors, main suppliers; 
 · Treatment operators – garages, ATFs, dismantlers, shredders, recyclers; 
 · National EPR organisations; 
 · Steel, aluminium, copper and plastic producers; 
 · Insurance sector; 
 d) Environment non-governmental organisations (for waste management, pollution, circular economy etc.) and consumer organisations; 
 e) Experts (academics, research institutes) for waste management, pollution, circular economy etc. 
 2.2 Consultation and method tools 
 A variety of methods and tools have been applied to ensure a comprehensive and well-balanced consultation process, including the following: 
 - Publication of the inception impact assessment : to gather first reactions by stakeholders on the outline of the initiative (22 October 2020) 
 20 
 . The feedback period was open until 19 November 2020 and 61 contributions were received; 
 - A dedicated support study : this has been carried out by an external consultant, and made an important contribution to the preparatory work. The study has been examining different policy options and measures by providing key environmental, social, legal and economic expertise, data and analysis. 
 - A 14 week open public consultation, held between 20 July 2021 and 26 October 2021, was published on the Commission EU Survey website 
 21 
 . This open public consultation covered the key subjects and elements addressed in the impact assessment (i.e. problem definitions, drivers, problems and consequences, possibility to extend the scope of the ELV Directive; design for circularity aspects; setting of separate reuse/ material specific-recycled content targets; ways to address the issue of missing vehicles; illegal export of ELVs and used vehicles; possible policy options and their likely environmental, social and economic impacts etc.). The questionnaire contained both closed and open questions. Close questions with multiple-choice answers were used where possible (yes/no, ranges of expected impacts, etc.) to allow statistical evaluation of the results. For some areas, in particular to collect data, open questions were necessary. These general questions were supplemented by more detailed questions targeting stakeholders with specialised knowledge on the subject. These responses are in detailed provided in the separate document 
 22 
 . 
 - Targeted consultation: In a form of email correspondence and personal interviews, this consultation method was used to: 
 – collect data and initial views about feasibility of certain measures; 
 – confirm and validate final assumptions and results of the study; or 
 – collect missing data. 
 Throughout the assessment, the areas where data is missing or where impacts exist that are uncertain but may significantly influence the final results needed to be identified. From this analysis, specific stakeholders were consulted for filling the information gap and further refining the results. 
 Where necessary, stakeholders have been approached in a format of emails with the request to provide written answers to certain questions or to substantiate claims shared in the first consultation stages. Contact has been conducted on ad hoc basis as specific aspects arise. 
 Additionally, up to twenty personal interviews took place in three stages. Most of these were performed between the online public consultation (OPC) and the stakeholder workshop. A few were performed before the end of the OPC and others followed the workshop. 
 All interviews were documented; interviewees asked to confirm or adjust the interview results and to specify if the interview may be used as a source. 
 Stakeholder workshop: A two-day workshop 24-25 March 2022, held after the public consultation, provided a forum to discuss particular aspects of the assessment related to the defined problem areas and measures attributed to the policy options. 
 During the workshop, open discussions with stakeholders allowed to collect views and discuss conflicting perspectives. Workshop discussions and results were documented. Stakeholders has two weeks following the workshop to submit additional information and data to substantiate their views. 
 The results of all the activities were in detail summarised and presented in the following sections of this synopsis report. 
 Table 2.1 Overview of different methods of the consultation strategy 
 What 
 Public feedback 
 23 
 Online public consultation (OPC) 
 Targeted consultation 
 Stakeholder workshop 
 Consultation of Member States 
 Follow up consultation activities after the workshops 
 How 
 No specific format of feedback required, additional written contributions possible 
 Online Questionnaire Survey with the possibility to provide additional written contributions 
 Web conference interviews 
 2-day online meeting 
 Ad-hoc survey and 1-day meeting 
 Written feedback on the content presented in the workshop and written exchange 
 Why 
 To explain the approach and invite them to contribute 
 To validate/obtain data and information and to gain opinions on more detailed/specific aspects 
 To validate/obtain data and information and to gain opinions on more detailed/specific aspects 
 To discuss specific aspects, validate findings, gather additional evidence 
 To inform MS on measures and policy options, to discuss specific aspects, gather additional evidence and experiences from MS 
 To gather evidence that was requested in the workshop, to ask clarification questions on feedback, opinion and information provided, to request additional data 
 Who 
 All stakeholders 
 Specific stakeholder groups 
 Selected key stakeholders from specific stakeholder groups 
 Specific stakeholder groups 
 Representatives / Experts of MS authorities 
 Targeted stakeholders 
 How data / information was used in the impact assessment 
 Information used to structure the OPC questionnaire, to provide an initial overview of interested stakeholders 
 Identification of opinions of stakeholder groups; participating stakeholders were invited to the stakeholder workshop; for stakeholders invited to the targeted consultation, identify topics to which the study team expected the interviewed stakeholder to contribute. 
 Validate assumptions, understand the situation of selected key stakeholders, information used for identification of measures and policy options for reviewing the ELV Directive, information used for the impact analysis of measures. 
 Information used for revising the measures and policy options for reviewing the ELV Directive, information used for the impact analysis of measures. 
 Learn from experiences of MS-specific legislation already addressing problems targeted in the review of the ELV Directive and with regards to the measures proposed on EU level 
 Used for the impact analysis of measures 
 2.3. Stakeholder consultation 
 2.3.1. 2.3.1. 
 Overview of open public consultation 
 Questions concerning various problem areas were presented in the form of a questionnaire which was divided into two sections. The first section, comprising of ten questions, was addressed to the general public, including those not familiar with the ELV Directive and the vehicle sector. The second section contained thirty more specific questions and focussed on those who had specific knowledge and interest in the vehicle sector. Nevertheless, the entire questionnaire was open for participants to express their views. 
 The questionnaire was made available in all the EU official languages between 20 July 2021 and 26 October 2021 (14 weeks). To maximise the response rate, a link to the questionnaires was placed on the Waste Policy pages within the EUROPA Website 
 24 
 , and a number of organisations were also contacted directly and asked to help disseminate the link. 
 In total, 208 respondents filled in the questionnaire during the consultation period. 199 (95%) specified that they had specific knowledge and interest in the vehicle sector. In the group of citizens and consumer NGOs, only 5 participants indicated not having specific knowledge of relevance. 
 57 stakeholders submitted a written contribution to further elaborate on their views. 
 Of the total participants, 69 requested their contribution to remain anonymous. The rest, which accounted 67%, agreed to the publication of all information of their contribution. Around 54% of participants were aware that their organisations were listed in the EU transparency register, while on the other hand, 95 of the participant organisations did not provide information on their status in the transparency register. 
 In the following sections, there is a quantitative analysis for the survey answers where predetermined answers were given. The factual summary of the “general questions” of the questionnaire is available in the ‘Have your say’ portal 
 25 
 . The responses to the more specific questions have been taken into consideration as part of the impact assessment process and summarized in the further sections of the annex, including the contributions received during a targeted consultation. 
 Participation by the SMEs 
 In total, 208 stakeholders participated in the open public consultation 
 26 
 (OPC conducted between 20 July 2021 and 26 October 2021). 199 (95%) specified that they had specific knowledge and interest in the vehicle sector. Classifying by size, 59 stakeholders identified themselves as large companies with 250 or more employees and comprised almost 1/3 of all participants. 130 of all stakeholders identified themselves as belonging to micro, small or medium (SMEs) companies, which total share was equal to 62.5%. 19 participants or 9.13% of stakeholders did not provide the answer on the size of organization they represent. 
 More information about the consultation with SMEs is provided in Annex 13. 
 2.3.2. 2.3.2. 
 Survey in relation to 3R type-approval Directive 
 A 3R type-approval Directive-specific survey was conducted with stakeholders on this subject in proximity to interviews (see section before). The survey was developed similarly to the interview questionnaires for consulting three different stakeholder groups: OEMs, technical services, and type approval authorities. For all three groups, questions on the link to the ELV Directive, on the process of type approval and on possible future amendments were identical, a stakeholder group-specific set of questions was added to each one. The questionnaire was agreed on and is available to the European Commission. 
 The survey was distributed to OEMs through requesting the association ACEA to send the survey questionnaire to its members. The European Commission assisted in sending the questionnaire to type approval authorities. The survey was also forwarded to type approval technical services that had been initially identified but not interviewed. 
 Four Member States participated (3 provided the filled-out survey, 1 provided short input per email), and one OEM send a confidential contribution. Additional information was received from three more organizations/stakeholder groups 
 · one position paper (from ACEA), 
 · one interview in the main study was used to get specific information on the 3R type-approval Directive (UN ECE/UNEP), and 
 · one e-mail with additional explanatory information was received, in relation to the information provided in one of the specific interviews (from MS representatives from France). 
 In the round of written feedback in April 2022 (follow-up after the workshop in March 2022), a further written contribution from Germany was received. 
 Based on the indication of a lot of stakeholders, most of the information cannot be cited in this report as information has been provided on a confidential basis or interview documentations have not been confirmed by interviewees. 
 The positions of stakeholders are summarised in chapter 2.5.6. 
 2.3.3. 2.3.3. 
 Overview of the targeted stakeholder consultation 
 A targeted consultation (interviews) was held starting in November 2021. The phase was split into two rounds of interviews: 
 1. The main study interviews held in the period from 3 November to 3 December 2021. In this round, the consultants conducted 20 interviews, see the list of interviewed organizations. One additionally invited stakeholder (ANEC BEUC) did not participate due to the questions being too technical for the stakeholder group they represent. The group of stakeholders that participated in the main study interviews consisted of automotive manu facturers for cars, lorries, vans, buses and motorcycles (n=3), suppliers of materials and (second-hand) components (n=6), stakeholders involved in the management of ELVs (n=7), and individual other stakeholders including a Producers Responsibility Organisation, a registration and international authority, a stakeholder representing insurance companies, and environmental NGOs. 
 2. Interviews held in relation to the 3R type-approval Directive in the period from 17 December 2021 to 7 February 2022. The invited group of stakeholders consisted of auto motive manufacturers (n=5), type approval technical services (n=3), type-approval authority / market surveillance (n=2), international authorities and one stakeholder conducting dismant ling trials. Inputs were obtained from 8 out of 12 invited stakeholders. 
 The consultation phase was organised as follows: The interviews were distributed internally according to the focus of the respective associations or stakeholders and the work focus of the experts. The interviewees were initially contacted indicating the goal and scope of the study. When no answer was received, reminders were sent. Date and time for the interview were agreed on and consultants provided a web conference tool. An interview guideline was sent to the stakeholders in advance of the meeting. Due to the extent of the main study questionnaire, it was accompanied by an indication of the sections to which the study team expected the interviewed stakeholder to contribute. Other sections were included for transparency, and the interviewees could also contribute to the questions therein. Often, answers were received with specification of topics of interest for the stakeholders. In some cases, stakeholders responded to topics additional to those planned for the interview. Only in some cases, the whole questionnaire was subject of the interview. Protocols of results were prepared after the interview and sent for approval to the respective interview partner. Together with the approval, consultants asked for the permission to cite answers given in the interview in the study report. If rejected, information was not included in the report. 
 Table 3.2 Stakeholders invited to main study interviews, dates of interview and indication of the sections to which the study team expected the interviewed stakeholder to contribute. 
 # 
 Scope 
 Hazardous substances 
 Design 4 circularity 
 Coherence (3RD) 
 Recycling definition 
 Reuse target 
 Material recycling targets 
 Data accessibility 
 EPR 
 Missing vehicles 
 Illegal export 
 Reporting: vehicle fleet 
 Repoorting: reuse recycling 
 1 
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 x 
 2 
 ACEM 
 x 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 3 
 Renault 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 4 
 European Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 5 
 Eurometaux 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 6 
 Eurofer 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 7 
 Automotive Parts Remanufacturers Association (apra) 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 8 
 European Ferrous Recovery and Recycling Branch (EFR), a branch of the European Recycling Industries' Confederation (EuRIC) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x* 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 9 
 European Federation of Glass Recyclers (FERVER) 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 10 
 European Plastics Recycling Branch (EPRB), a branch of the European Recycling Industries' Confederation (EuRIC) together with Plastics Recyclers Europe (PRE) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 11 
 EGARA 
 (x) 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 12 
 Auto Recycling Nederland (ARN) 
 (x) 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 13 
 INDRA 
 (x) 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 14 
 Spanish national association for recycling of industrial vehicles (ANERVI)/ Spanish ATF Association (AETRAC) 
 x 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 15 
 Association of European Vehicle and Driver Registration Authorities (EReg) & EUCARIS 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 16 
 UN Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) 
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 17 
 MAIF (insurance company, France) 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 (x) 
 18 
 European Environmental Bureau (EEB), ECOS, 
Transport and Environment (TE), FoE Germany, DUH 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 19 
 ANEC BEUC - The European Consumer Organizations 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 (x) 
 20 
 The European Tyre and Rubber Manufacturers’ Association (ETRMA) and Recycling Association (ETRA) 
 (x) 
 x 
 (x) 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 Approved interview documentations were gathered and distributed within the study team in order to use input of all interviews for developing the measures in further detail and assessing related impacts. The input from the targeted consultation has been taken into consideration for the preparation of initial results and the development of initial measures that were presented at the sectoral stakeholder meetings as well as the MS meeting (see sections below). 
 Though in most cases stakeholders gave their consent to cite information provided through the interviews, confirmed interview documentation is not intended for publication itself. The documentations are among the material that was provided to the European Commission. 
 2.3.4. 2.3.4. 
 Stakeholder Workshop on 23-24 March 2022 
 In cooperation with the Commission, the contractor prepared a stakeholder workshop and a meeting with experts from the Member States (see the chapter on “consultation of Member States” below). All meetings were organised as web conferences. Stakeholder contacts from the targeted consultation were provided by the consultants. Further selection of invitees was done by the European Commission, e.g., participants of the open public consultation. Associations were invited, but, in comparison to the targeted consultation, more individual companies were present. The contractor prepared material to inform participants on the contents of the meeting which were send around to invited stakeholders beforehand. At the meeting, the contractor gave an input (presentation) on the current situation in relation to the problems, the measures under consideration, initial results and topics for discussion. 
 The meetings were structured according to the topics. The agenda is provided below. Meetings were facilitated by the consultant’s team members; minutes were prepared of each meeting. 
 Figure 3.1 Overview of composition of stakeholder registered for the workshop (n=289) 
 Note: The category of ”automotive manufacturers” includes manufacturers of all types of vehicles, incl. motorcycles, vehicles accessible to disabled people, caravanning industry, to name some. / The category of ”associated industry” includes, among others, all (secondary) raw material-related industry stakeholders. / (*) The numbers relate to the registrations for the workshop. Due to changing audience during and last minute requests before the workshop, it was not possible to analyse the composition of stakeholders in relation to their actual participation. Source: Own compilation 
 Possibilities of participation in the meeting: 
 · To gather input from a larger audience of stakeholders, and additional interaction tool (app called Slido ) was used during the workshop to survey the views of the participants on certain aspects. Slido questions were answered by participants in the course of the presentations of the consultants or in the days following the workshop. 
 · For oral contributions, stakeholders could write in the chat the essence of their comment and wait to be requested to speak. 
 · After the workshop, a ll participants had two weeks to submit additional information and data to substantiate their views. 
 For each of the topics, the consultants took into account aspects that were discussed in the meetings, and where (updates of) data was provided, e.g., in relation to the material composition of L-type approved vehicles, these were feed into the calculation of impacts for the final report. 
 The parts of the documentation of the stakeholder workshop not intended for publication and provided solely to the EC include: 
 · Participants list; 
 · Minutes of the meeting; 
 · Documentation of the chat of the online meeting; and 
 · Slido results. 
 2.3.5. 2.3.5. 
 Consultation of Member States 
 The consultation of Member States consisted of two elements: 
 a) Ad hoc survey 
 A questionnaire for Member State Experts was prepared covering the four topics: 
 · Management of Shredder Light Fraction (SLF) and Shredder Heavy Fraction (SHF), 
 · Fees or taxes to support recycling of ELVs, 
 · Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) System, 
 · Waste management of other types of vehicles. 
 The questionnaire was sent out to the MS in February with most MS sending answers prior to the workshop, and a few (2-3) sent afterwards. Answers to the questionnaire were provided by 15 Member States, namely Lithuania, Belgium, Ireland, Estonia, Slovakia, Greece, Malta, Finland, Croatia, Spain, France, Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Germany. Additional documents were received from Belgium only. 
 As for the processing of the data, it is to be said that no statistical evaluation of responses was made, but responses are exemplarily summarized for two of the four topics as follows. Where information from the survey is used in the main report, it is referenced, and all questionnaires are available to the EC. 
 Management of Shredder Light Fraction (SLF) and Shredder Heavy Fraction (SHF). In 6 MS, the disposal of untreated SLF/SHF in landfills is prohibited. 4 MS prohibit the disposal in landfills of fractions from post shredder treatment (PST). 4 MS (in case of BE only Flanders) allow to consider untreated SLF for the purpose of road construction, within which 3 consider it as recycling. Selected detailed responses showed that some countries defined certain criteria for acceptance of waste at the landfill that have to be fulfilled (e.g., POP content in the residues or that the residues intended to landfill cannot be recycled of incinerated anymore). BE (Flanders) allows the disposal in landfills of fractions from PST, however the costs for disposal are higher than the costs for recycling or thermal treatment. Some countries admitted that due to a disposal ban in their countries the recycling rates of ELVs increased. 
 Waste management of other types of vehicles. In ES, FR, CZ, BE (Flanders), and LT the waste management of motorcycles is governed by specific national legislation. This is not the case in SK, EL, MT, FI, HR, NL, DE, SE, and IE. In ES, CZ, BE (Flanders), and LT waste management of lorries is governed by specific national legislation. This is not the case in SK, EL, MT, FI, HR, FR, NL, DE, SE, IE. Of those that do not have specific national legislation, several countries (HR, FI, EL, NL, DE) indicated that the treatment of motorcycles and lorries is ensured and/or environmental permits for facilities are requested through general waste legislation. Additional information on waste management of other types of vehicles was provided by 4 MS (LT, BE, CZ, DE). 
 b) Member State Workshop on 31 March 2022 
 In cooperation with the Commission, the contractor prepared a Member State Representatives workshop in addition to the stakeholder workshop (see above). The meeting was organised as web conferences. The same material as for the stakeholder workshop was distributed among MS representatives to inform participants on the contents of the meeting beforehand, also, representatives of the Member States were invited to participate in the stakeholder workshop. Thus, assuming that Member States representatives could inform themselves in the stakeholder workshop as well as with the provided information, at the meeting, the contractor gave a very short additional input (presentation) the problems, the measures under consideration, and topics for discussion. 
 The meeting was structured according to the topics. Additional three presentations were held by Member State representatives from France, Belgium and the Netherlands. The agenda is reproduced below. Meetings were facilitated by the consultant’s team members; minutes were prepared and provided to the European Commission. 
 2.3.6. 2.3.6. 
 Follow-up after the workshop and ad-hoc consultation 
 Discussions during the stakeholder workshop left open several questions and stakeholders were asked to provide information on certain topics at the end of each meeting. 39 representatives for different associations and stakeholder groups have submitted additional information. 
 In addition to other consultation stages, several stakeholders were consulted individually in terms of specific aspects of interest for the consultants. The information provided was used for the impact analysis of measures and policy options. 
 2.4. Key positions of stakeholders on specific topics 
 2.3.7. 2.4.1. 
 Circularity 
 Design for circularity 
 Statistical OPC 
 On the question if there should be an obligation on vehicle manufacturers to improve circularity characteristics of a vehicle during the design phase, all groups of stakeholders agreed in over 50% to this question. Support was the lowest (51 %) in the category of the automotive manufacturers, where almost 25% did not support this option. The highest support was registered by environmental NGOs (100%), waste management operators (93%) and public authorities (86%). 
 For more details please refer to ”Analysis of open public consultations” (Oeko-Institut e. V. 2022). 
 Written OPC 
 Ten contributions mention the topic of (eco-)design specifically. One of the focus topics is the design for dismantlability which various stakeholders would like to see promoted through the new regulation (VEOLIA 
 27 
 , EEB 
 28 
 , Federec 
 29 
 , INDRA 
 30 
 , FNADE 
 31 
 ) whereas others have objections or comments, such as: 
 · ‘life cycle approach more efficient to promote circularity than imposing design requirements’ (Volvo 
 32 
 ); 
 · ‘dismantling provisions must not impair the essential targets of safety, comfort, environmental performance such as fuel/electricity consumption, costs etc’ (Plastics Europe); and 
 · ‘solutions on eco-design therefore should not be solely based on manual separation/sorting’ (EuRIC) stating that PST sorting should be taken into account. 
 · Design for circularity could be supported by sensor-based technology (ECI) and free knowledge sharing and discussion between recyclers and manufacturers (EuRIC, FNADE; see also under ‘data availability’). 
 Eco-Design is mentioned in combination with the 3R type-approval Directive by EuRIC in terms of merging ELV Directive and 3R type-approval Directive; and by Federec and INDRA with regards to ‘practicability checks’ of recyclability under the 3R type-approval. Volvo suggests that ‘ELV Directive should focus instead on requiring OEMs to have a strategy to cover the 3 Rs’, which is already part of the provisions of Art. 6 of 3R type-approval Directive. 
 Another focus is on the means of eco-design to phase out hazardous substances mentioned by VEOLIA. Other stakeholders mentioned hazardous substances under the topics of ‘data availability’, in combination with recycled content targets or with regards to ‘coherence’. 
 Individual aspects include ethical sourcing as part of material decisions in eco-design (ECI), less different polymers (‘there are currently 39 different types of basic plastics and polymers used to make an automobile’, and a proposal from FEAD to limit the use of non-recyclable materials based on The Plastics Industry Trade Association, 2016). 
 It should be noted that in their contributions some stakeholders consider recycled content targets as part of the 3R targets and some connect the recycled content targets with the topic of (eco-) design. 
 Interviews 
 Regarding non-recyclable materials, the vehicle manufacturing sector generally pointed out the benefit of using such materials for light weighting due to the benefits during the use phase in terms of CO 2 emissions reduction. Stakeholders representing the waste phase referred to the obstacle that large amounts of such materials pose for achieving targets but were against their prohibitions, explaining that this would affect innovation, whereas proven materials would increase in use and at some point suffice to develop manufacturing (with less beneficial ones being used shortly and then abandoned). 
 ATFs referred to the phenomenon of locking components with digital keys (e.g., window wiper motor, injector, inverter, mirror, window motor, navigation, etc.) as a problem, explaining that it is an obstacle for reuse as a component removed without the key will not be reusable. The information does not have to be free but the price should not be prohibitive for reuse practices of ATFs. This is understood to particularly affect establishments that work with multiple vehicle models and brands and that do not have contracts with specific OEMs. Vehicle manufacturers on the other side claim that the locks are of importance for the safety of vehicles, anti-theft and provision of the data could disclose proprietary. It is not clear what type of data would be at risk. Components that are interchangeable between models and brands were also raised as a type of component where OEMs are reluctant to provide data (e.g., when the same supplier provides multiple vehicles models and brands with the same component) an where this can have an effect on the ability to reuse parts. 
 As for IDIS, ATFs said that it contained a lot of information but that the level of detail is not always sufficient to support dismantling. Information is not available through IDIS for parts with reuse potential (the objective of IDIS is to support quick dismantling – ensuring that the component remains functional is not always in line with this objective). Though OEMs say that such data can be accessed under the RMI (Repair and maintenance information systems of the OEMs – each is individual to a certain OEM) ATFs complain about the cost of such data. Here too, the information does not have to be free but the price should be fair to encourage dismantling for reuse. 
 Some stakeholders state that the 3R type-approval Directive calculation is too theoretical, recommending requiring OEMs to also specify how certain parts can be dismantled. The calculation should also reflect the ease or difficulty of recycling a part that would be a separate Annex of depending on whether it is a mono-material of not. 
 Workshop 
 During the workshop the issue of compliance of automotive manufacturers with diverse regulations was brought up (ACEA). Thus, new regulations should consider the other compliance demands, in particular for passenger safety and environmental protections. Vehicles typically comply the existing regulations on the day that they are brought to the market. The changes in regulations that happen during the vehicle lifetime can be covered by post-shredder technologies. 
 The idea to combine the ELV aspects from the ELV Directive and the 3R type-approval Directive into a single regulation was also encouraged (ECOS 
 33 
 ). Additionally, it was proposed to bring the EU ELV legislation to the level of the United Nations when looking at lifecycle provisions (UNECE 
 34 
 ). 
 Definitions 
 Statistical OPC 
 Most stakeholders (56%) agreed or agreed strongly that the ELV definition for recycling should be aligned to that of the WFD as this would support a higher level of material recovery. Aside from the automotive producers that were mainly neutral, the majority in all stakeholder categories supported an alignment. Only 3% disagreed with this statement, however there was also a large share of stakeholders that were neutral (40 individuals) or that did not have an opinion (31 individuals) making for a total of 40% together with those that did not specify an answer (13 individuals). 
 Status of parts to be recycled/ remanufactured must be clearly distinguished from waste and benefit from same conditions as spare parts. EU should establish a harmonized definition of waste and non-waste for reuse/remanufacturing purpose. 
 Written OPC 
 Coherence with the WFD is referred to in a general way (WEEE AUDITS 
 35 
 ; CRM Alliance 
 36 
 ) or by pointing out specific needs, e.g., to exclude backfilling from the definition of recycling (FNADE) or the need for harmonized definitions of waste and recycling in order to prevent distortions of competition due to different national implementation (FORS 
 37 
 ). Also, consistency with the landfill directive is mentioned (Plastics Europe 
 38 
 ). Definition of when a car becomes an ELV was also raised (Febelauto 
 39 
 ) also in the context of vehicles export (FEDEREC 
 40 
 ), where it should be required to present a valid technical control certificate to authorize their export. 
 Interviews 
 It is generally agreed that the definition of recycling should be aligned with the WFD to exclude backfilling. Many stakeholders do not expect that this will change the achievability of the 3R targets as backfilling operations are not so common and do not cover all downcycling operations. This is particularly understood to be relevant for glass, which is mainly considered recycled through the post-shredder mineral fraction. 
 The need to align the definition of reuse with the WFD was raised in relation to the later reference to “preparing for reuse”. Changes to the definition could affect what is considered waste and what is considered a product and need to look into how they work with the definition of “end-of-waste” to ensure that obstacles are not created for shipments of used or remanufactured parts. A definition for remanufactured components should also be introduced to strengthen how such parts are perceived in comparison to reused ones and to ensure that remanufacturing practices fulfil minimum requirements. 
 A few stakeholders raised the need to define ELVs as compared to second hand vehicle so that the differences between these two categories are clearer and easier to enforce for customs authorities to prevent illegal exports. 
 Workshop 
 As shared by a car manufacturer representative (Renault), the current legal definition of a new product does not allow inclusion of remanufactured parts . This means that a new vehicle currently, in legal terms, may not contain remanufactured elements; the entire vehicle must be made new, though perhaps using recycled materials. This legal issue is not specific to vehicles. However, from a technical perspective, remanufactured vehicle parts are certified as equivalent in functionality and reliability/safety/etc. to new parts and could therefore be acceptable for use in new vehicles. This legal limitation restricts the sale of remanufactured vehicle parts to the repairs market. Also, there is anyway a limited feedstock of remanufactured parts because the long vehicular lifetime means that the current ELVs do not offer many parts for remanufacture. Additionally, the term and definitions of remanufactured parts should be included in the 3R type-approval Directive. 
 A definition of differentiating between pre- and post-consumer plastics would be helpful as well as applicable definitions of ‘open-loop’, ‘closed-loop’, etc. 
 In Belgium, each total technical loss means the vehicle is an ELV , regardless of the price of repair in the home country or elsewhere. However, total economic loss is not considered in the definition of an ELV; such vehicles may be exported from Belgium as damaged vehicles without any special conditions. 
 Separate Reuse target 
 Statistical OPC 
 46% of the participants either agreed or strongly agreed with the implementation of a reuse target separately from the recycled target. This included all environmental NGOs, most waste operators (53% of the category) and most public authorities (68% of the category). 22% disagreed or disagreed strongly with this option, with the automotive manufacturing sector most often providing these answers (51% of the category). 
 On the question on which measures would contribute to increase the reuse of vehicles parts, the most common answers were: obligation for repair shops to offer customers used spare parts as an alternative to new ones, obligation for ATFs to remove certain parts of ELVs before shredding to help increase reuse, obligation for car manufacturers to enable (e.g. the ATFs) unlocking parts so that they can be reused and dismantled, and obligation for car manufacturers to provide the dismantling centres (ATFs) with information about which parts can be used as identical parts in other models of the manufacturer or even other brands. 
 Written OPC 
 When asked to explain their views, the most common views in support of a separate reuse target were that reuse is higher up in the EU waste hierarchy than recycling, also supporting circularity. Others explained that before a part is recycled it could be reused. Specific targets were explained to allow monitoring reuse, in relation to the “quantity of pieces reintroduced in the market” (an indicator of eco-design, and percentage of reuse and repairability) and as an indicator of the “efficiency of treatment operations of the authorized centres”. 
 Of those that disagreed with such measures it was explained that reuse was mainly economically motivated (if no one needs a particular spare part it’s better to recycle). Though reuse was stated to be important, as reuse is market driven it was questioned if targets would increase the amount of reuse. It was also said that vehicles that are recycled are often too old (20 years) for re-use of parts as well as mentioning that this was also the case for vehicles after a crash. Though reuse is said to be practiced commonly by ATFs, one stakeholder explained that it may not be reported to “avoid reporting taxable income in the ATFs”. 
 Additionally, separate reuse target worsening quality and safety risks witnessed in the informal refurbished vehicles market. Reuse and recycling should be considered as on par equivalents if separate targets for each were to be created. 
 Interviews 
 Regarding reuse, many stakeholders spoke against the idea of separate targets for reuse and recycling, explaining that fulfilment of the one may have negative effects on the other. Obligatory dismantling to promote the reuse of parts was explained to create significant costs while not guaranteeing that the level of reuse would actually increase. ATFs explained that they need flexibility to look at the demand on the market and respond through deciding what components to reuse and which ones not to. This was due to fluctuations in the demand for reused components but also in the quality of components of some models. The example was given (EGARA 
 41 
 ) of the engine, where some models may have frequent malfunctions, in which case ATFs would avoid their reuse as a minimum guarantee could not be ensured. In some models, malfunctions are very rare, so that dismantling for reuse would result in the engine being stored for years, also creating large costs. Rather ATFs explain that measures should be considered that increase the demand for reused parts, with ATFs than following suit to ensure sufficient supply. 
 Workshops 
 Participants commented that decisions concerning remanufacturing are of high relevance in a circular economy, with such processes being essential for encouraging recycling. However, it is not recommendable to strictly consider reuse targets for aspects that may not have market options; ELV parts should not be required to be removed before shredding where there is no market for reselling such parts. It could be useful to consider environmental issues, market forces and overall demand in the recommendation. 
 A target for reuse/ remanufacturing of parts could potentially be helpful. However, it is necessary to consider the traceability of parts to know which ones would at all be suitable for reuse (as opposed to remanufacturing). It can be noted that the age of a used part may be much younger than the vehicle in which it is found. Safety should in particular be considered, especially for parts relating to vehicle safety, as was specified by one Member State. 
 Setting material-specific recycling targets 
 Statistical OPC 
 The most common answer to this question (31 participants or 15%) supported the view that the establishment of material-specific recycling targets would increase the separate recycling of materials addressed by targets, their quality and revenues from sale of such materials while also increasing the costs of recycling. 12% (24 participants) answered that this would increase separate recycling and secondary material quality while also increasing costs. The same share of participants estimate that such targets would only increase the recycling costs. From 47 respondents in the automotive manufacturing sector, 72% (34 individuals) stated that this would increase costs, while 51% (24 individuals) stated that it would increase separate recycling of materials. An increase in separate recycling was supported by all environmental NGOs, 85% (5 individuals) of which also supported that it would increase the quality of recycled materials. Public authorities supported the four options similar, with between 15 and 11 individuals (68-50%) indicating the various options. Waste management operators most often indicated that this measure would support separate recycling of materials (71%) but also increase the costs (60%). 
 The vast majority (64%) of stakeholders agreed that material-specific recycling targets have an impact on innovation. This was the most common answer in all stakeholder categories with most categories showing 60-70% agreement. Only 8% were against this, while the rest did not have an opinion (23%) or did not answer (5%). 
 The most common answer to this question was either no answer (79 individuals or 38%) or that material specific recycling targets would lead to an increase in high quality recycling, in innovative recycling opportunities and processes and in innovative eco-design of products (59 individuals or 28%). The distribution of answers was quite similar among stakeholder categories. 
 Written OPC 
 When asked to provide detail on answers, one stakeholder stated that “Targets for the entire vehicle proved to be effective. Splitting the target into different material-specific ones should be done only for improving the quality of recycling and the effectiveness of the directive. They should not be legally binding”. Against the measure it was said that “some materials are recoverable but without any outlet / market”. 
 Materials mentioned in the context of specific material recycling were the Platinum Group Metals (PGMs). For glass and plastics, it was mentioned that the costs of recycling are higher than revenues while for electronic components it was assumed that revenues were possible. In some cases, it was stated that this would allow a greater separation of certain materials prior to shredding, like plastics. 
 Stakeholders provided also further details on the question on “how material-specific recycling targets would impact innovation” and introduced negative (e.g. documentation/monitoring will be impossible: volume flows in tonnes range, versus quantities in milligram range to be documented; limits the use new materials, e.g., non-recyclables like carbon fibre composite, until a viable solutions has been developed and implemented in Europe) as well as positive sides (e.g.: increase of development of post-shredding technologies as well as processing technologies of secondary raw materials, increase use of secondary raw materials). 
 Interviews 
 When asked about the option of introducing separate material targets for recycling, many stake holders explained that it was difficult to comment on the targets proposed as whether a specific value was achievable depended on how the targets were measured (EUROMETAUX 
 42 
 ). If recycling is to be measured based on the actual material that is included in the composition of a specific vehicle or based on a theoretical value would make a big difference. Whether reporting is on the total inputs of a materials, the amount sent by operators for recycling or the amount that is actually recycled affects the achievability of a target. Also, for some materials like aluminium, there are big differences in the total content between models. Luxury cars will have higher amounts but are also more often exported, so that an average value may be difficult to fulfil. For steel it was explained that 90% is already achieved. The rate could be increased, however every marginal increase from this level will also increase the costs significantly. On tyres, views were raised that the market is still very much developing in terms of recycling options. Some outlets could be considered to increase the total recycling, but have low acceptability with MS (e.g., rubber turf for playgrounds and sport fields). 
 Workshop 
 Material-specific recycling targets should be seen as an addition to the common targets. The MS mainly report data from dismantlers, shredders and ATFs, data which is collected from different points in the recycling process. Ultimately, the recycling quota of the MS is reported, not dismantling rates (Swedish EPA). 
 Recycled content targets 
 For key positions of stakeholders on a recycled content target content for plastic please refer to the respective report by the EC Joint Research Centre. 
 Statistical OPC 
 There was one question on other materials (other than plastics) for which a recycled content target should be considered in the OPC. Though a few materials were mentioned in this respect by about a third of stakeholders (e.g., aluminium, glass, REE but also platinum group metals and steel), a larger share of stakeholders (45%) did not provide input, indicating the answers “none”, “no opinion” or just skipping the question altogether. 
 Interviews 
 Regarding recycled content for other materials, for most metals it was explained that recycling was already quite high, and that a recycled content target would not change this much but rather create competition between (high quality) uses, which will not result in resource savings. Recycled content targets should only be considered where there is a market failure. Positive views were raised for plastics and in some cases for glass and tyres, where high quality recycling is low and where secondary raw materials are less common for use in vehicles 
 Vehicle data accessibility 
 Statistical OPC 
 In the OPC, when stakeholders were asked to specify what kind of information producers should provide free of charge to ATF, a large number of stakeholders (41%) specified all of the available options, namely, information on: 
 · where dismantled components can be reused (which vehicle or brands, models and types); 
 · how to correctly remove parts with digital components and how to appropriately prepare them for reuse/ installation; 
 · the duration / effort for obligatory depollution; 
 · the duration / effort for dismantling components for reuse. 
 There was furthermore strong agreement (over 70%) that manufacturers should provide such information in a fair and non-discriminatory manner and at reasonable prices (if any) to all ATFs. Stakeholders were also asked to indicate whether vehicle manufacturers should be obliged to provide information on the content of certain substance groups to support plastic recycling. Here there was a diversity of answers, with a third having no opinion, but also with large support for information obligations on flame retardants (66%), plasticisers (49%) and stabilisers (46%). 
 Written OPC 
 Stakeholders emphasised the importance of access to information on vehicle contents for dismantling and safe treatment of vehicles. Though some stakeholders stressed the need for data at model level, in some cases mentioning IDIS. The option to develop a Digital Product Passport was also mentioned as well as the option to use a Radio-frequency identification (RFID) or a QR code. 
 Interviews 
 ATFs raise the difficulties that they experience with the availability of various data types. IDIS was said to include a lot of information however stakeholders of this sector complain that the level of data is not homogenous for all models and makes and that the amount of data on how to dis mantle specific parts is not always sufficient to support the process. Availability to data on compo nents that are locked with a digital key is problematic. Though data is understood to be made available by OEMs for a cost, ATFs explain that there is no harmonised system and rather that ATFs need to register for multiple systems, each with separate costs. For facilities dismantling vehicles of multiple brands (and also for repair shops) this makes the use of such data prohibitive as the costs paid for access will depend on how often a system is accessed. Access to data on the contents of hazardous substances may be available through the SCIP database 
 43 
 , but this is not practical to support removal of relevant parts during dismantling. Data is not available as to the contents of hazardous substance at the level of the specific component in a specific model (except data on mercury in components that need to be removed or lead in Pb-acid batteries). This is a problem for example for substances that are prohibited by the POPs Regulation (e.g., DecaBDE) resulting in the need to send plastics with a risk of containing such materials to incineration as the level of content cannot be determined during dismantling for each material part separately. 
 Workshop 
 The concern was raised that if the method for making data available to ATFs is in the form of a digital product passport (DPP), this would probably not work for all the 250 million vehicles on the road, that will take several decades to be treated. Either ATFs would not have data for these or IDIS will have to continue working even if it is not any more the solution and no new information is introduced. Also, in relation to the option of a DPP, it was mentioned that a single system would need to be developed, rather than having multiple DPP for the vehicle. 
 2.3.8. 2.4.2. 
 Hazardous substances 
 Statistical OPC 
 The OPC had two questions on hazardous substances. The first on whether the revised ELV Directive should ban hazardous substances in vehicles, taking into account that restrictions on hazardous substances are also specified in other pieces of EU legislation (notably REACH). 66 of the responding stakeholders (32%) were of the view that all substances in vehicles should be regulated in the future under chemicals regulation. The same amount indicated that substances prohibited under ELV legislation should remain there, but that future prohibitions should be addressed under chemical legislation. In practice this would mean that for future prohibitions, 64% of stakeholders would prefer regulation under chemical legislation than under ELV legislation. Only 20% (41 individuals) were of the opinion that substances in vehicles should continue to be regulated under ELV legislation. For waste management operators, public authorities, environmental NGOs and dealers and repair shops the distribution between these answers was similar. Automotive producers had a stronger tendency to support the options where chemical legislation would be used for future prohibitions as opposed to the ELV Directive. The situation was similar for citizens and their organizations and “others”. Only 6% had no opinion or did not provide an answer. 
 To the second question, on which, if any, additional criteria for evaluating exemptions from the list of substance prohibitions would be necessary, the answers were quite variable. This is however also due to the fact that 7 different criteria were proposed as possible answers aside from “none” and “other”. Most combinations were indicated 1-2 times, in some cases having support of 6-9 stakeholders. The most common answers were to indicate all criteria (46 individuals or 22%), none (30 individuals or 14%), no answer (28 individuals or 13%) and the “Criterion on comparison of the use of the restricted substance with that of available substitutes in terms of environmental and health impacts (15 individuals or 7%)”. All other combinations received less support. 
 Asked to provide additional detail, stakeholders stated that: 
 · No exemption to the list of substance prohibitions in the ELV Directive, except for limited transition, if needed. Substances meeting the criteria for CLP 
 44 
 & SVHC 
 45 
 under REACH should be banned. The ELV Directive should allow for additional chemicals to be banned, 
 · The prohibitions and Annex II of ELV Directive need to be aligned with other EU legislations (REACH, RoHS, Batteries) concerning hazardous substances (3 stakeholders), 
 · impossible to give a “single” answer to this incredibly complicated question: as for flame retardant: you prefer the vehicle burn, or the people are exposed to a possible endocrine disruptor chemical? the answer is not technical, it is political (courage). 
 Other criteria mentioned: 
 · CO 2 footprint assessment (2 stakeholders), 
 · To check whether the use of the substance creates a risk impossible to manage or prevents recycling, 
 · Full life cycle consideration for the existing substance & substitute (2 stakeholders), 
 · Balanced approach for chemicals management, climate aspects and circularity (2 stake holders), 
 · Technical and economic feasibility (2 stakeholders). 
 Interviews 
 Many stakeholders when asked about the options of having all prohibitions under one legislation (ELV or REACH), did not really consider this option. Though certain stakeholders prefer REACH for (further) substance restrictions (material suppliers and recyclers), they explain that they would rather leave the exemptions for the four heavy metals under ELV legislation as the review mechanism is already established. Vehicle manufacturers were the only ones that clearly favoured the alternative of having all restrictions under ELV. Though some general statements were made as to costs of the exemption process or the environmental benefit that accrued so far from the prohibition of the 4 heavy metals, these were not quantified or e.g. explained in relation to how costs break down in to specific activities. 
 Written OPC 
 With regards to the prohibition of hazardous substances, coherence with REACH and CLP Regulations are mentioned in support of less hazardous substances (Anonymous, FNADE, Swedish Government), reminding to the current obligation for reporting in the SCIP database 
 46 
 to assist recyclers with understanding if SVHCs are present or not is also relevant here (FNADE; Plastics Europe), for the assessment of hazardous substances, uses and exposure as established for the risk assessment under REACH should be considered (Plastics Europe). 
 Workshop 
 The discussion on the hazardous substances part was surprisingly vivid. 
 Some participants stressed in the chat that they prefer REACH as central legislation for substance restrictions because REACH became a robust legal instrument and that this horizontal legislation should be referred to in all product legislation that restrict the use of substances due to risks. Also the coherence issue was noted to avoid different interpretations of legislative text or different content of definitions. 
 On the other hand, it was argued that so far REACH restriction barely covers chemicals in products as until now this only appears for textiles and PAH in rubber. A participant from NGOs claimed that substances that meet the criteria for SVHC under REACH and meet the CLP criteria should be prohibited in the new ELV Regulation for supporting a toxic-free environment policy purpose. Other participants however reminded that the “hazard” approach does not sufficiently support “a true circular economy” as contaminants might always remain in materials that are however embedded in the solid material and no health problem occurs. For this reason, the participant reminded to the risk approach, with exposure scenarios, which, in the case of a vehicle is relatively easy to define. 
 Besides, various participants reminded the difficulty of the time span until vehicles reach their end-of-life that makes the information on chemicals difficult (“How should the recycler and the automotive manufacturer know if they can use the material in a new car?” – “If you start now a digital product passport etc. the result will (perhaps) be visible/useful in 20 years.”) To solve this problem it was proposed to define specific exemptions not only for spare parts but also for recycling material. Participants argued that though this would not be in line with the aim of a non-toxic environment of chemicals strategy for sustainability, there is a risk that material will not be recycled because of legal risk or additional burden, which makes the circular business unprofitable. 
 2.3.9. 2.4.3. 
 Collection / Missing vehicles 
 Statistical OPC 
 That a charge applicable to the owner during periods of temporary de-registration would help ensure that owners follow their obligation to report any change of ownership or export to the authority was strongly supported by environmental NGOs, waste operators and public authorities. Only 11% were against this measure, mostly represented by consumers and their organizations who would also be the most negatively affected by such a measure. A vast majority agreed that better traceability should be established between the EU Member States’ registration systems on a legal status of a vehicle until its final deregistration. Including a roadworthiness test as a condition was considered by the largest number of stakeholders as an appropriate measure to overcome the problem of ‘illegal exports’ of ELVs and of exports of ELVs as used vehicles. Compliance with certain environmental criteria was the second most favoured, followed by conditions on maximum age or on maximum mileage. Among 14 different options for reducing the number of missing vehicles, over half of the participants (52%) indicated a combination of at least 6 of the various options which shows the high support for the implementation of additional measures to reduce the problems related with missing vehicles. A total of 46 participants (22%) did not provide an answer, 17 of which were from the automotive producing sector. 
 Results of a stakeholder consultation held in the course of the study on the ELVs of unknown whereabouts (Mehlhart et al. 2017) can provide additional insights as to the pros and cons of the various options. Due to former public consultations on the aspect of vehicles of unknown whereabouts, exported vehicles and collection, this OPC did not put a strong focus on this topic, but only asked the questions summarized above. To display a comprehensive stakeholder feedback on the topic, the OPC results from a study in 2016 can be found in the following box: 
 Excurse: Open Public Consultation in 2016 
 The `Public consultation on potential measures to improve the implementation of certain aspects of Directive on end-of-life vehicles, with emphasis on vehicles of unknown whereabouts´ was open for twelve weeks from 29 June to 21 September 2016. 
 The objective of this public consultation was to receive the views of stakeholders concerned with the topics of the consultation. 
 The online survey covers 6 topics below: 
 1. Keeping track of vehicles within the EU (intra EU trade); 
 2. Methods to achieve more complete reporting on extra EU export and ways to distinguish between exporting ELVs vs. used vehicle; 
 3. Enforcement techniques to reduce illegal dismantling of ELVs at dealers and repair shops (garages) and actions to improve ATF compliance; 
 4. Public awareness and incentives for ELV tracking and environmental risks; 
 5. Aspects to improve coverage and data quality when reporting on ELVs (possible revision of the Commission Decision 2005/293/EC); 
 6. Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) and ELVs. 
 According to the conclusion from the OPC in 2016 
 47 
 , "there is a broad and joint understanding among all stakeholders that the current procedures need further improvement to keep track of vehicles and to strengthen the requirement to issue and present a CoD. This applies for the provision of evidence on the vehicles fate during a temporary de-registration and also applies for fines to owners which do not provide statement of whereabouts for such temporary de-registered vehicles. 
 Most of the stakeholder support the implementation of economic incentives for instance fees or refund systems to ensure that ELVs are delivered to ATFs. Only car manufacturers and importers oppose such economic incentives. 
 With regard to the extra EU export of used vehicles (some of them possibly to be considered as ELV) the proposal to make Correspondents Guideline No 9 legally binding, many stakeholders oppose this proposal. Several stakeholders argue that the current version is difficult to apply and adjustments are needed before making the stipulations legally binding. Also, the approach to ban the extra EU export of used vehicles was not supported by the stakeholders. Instead, the stricter enforcement of inspections (when exporting) cooperation between IMPEL, police and customs authorities and the adjustment of reporting on waste shipment found strong support by all stakeholders. 
 With regard to the fight against illegal treatment within the EU the majority of stakeholders acknowledged the need for action in particular the need for national/ regional authorities to perform regular inspections of the sector (not only ATF and shredders but with a broader scope for garages, repair shops and spare part dealers) to identify illegal operations. Comments expressed the concern that improved burden to ATF only might even cause adverse effects (more illegal operator) and inspections should carefully focus to support legal operating facilities. 
 The proposal to establish minimum requirements for such inspection activities is less supported and partly rejected by the car manufacturers and importers. Again, proposals to establish economic incentives to strengthen the legally operating sector are opposed by the car manufacturers and importers. The proposal to improve the reporting mechanism when issuing a CoD and upon arrival of an ELV at ATFs or shredder facilities was in general supported, including the establishment of electronic notifications to the registration authorities. 
 Supporting public awareness for the management of ELVs is considered as relevant by the stakeholders. While penalties to car owners not fulfilling their duties are supported by the vast majority of stakeholders, incentives based on funds/ deposits are again opposed by the car manufacturers and importers. 
 All replies of the stakeholders to the manyfold questions in details can be found in the mentioned report “Assessment of the implementation of Directive 2000/53/EU on end-of-life vehicles (the ELV Directive) with emphasis on the end-of-life vehicles of unknown whereabouts 
 48 
 ” published by the EC in 2017. 
 Written OPC 
 The topic was of high interest for stakeholders providing written input. Of 57 contributions, 15 contained information or opinion on vehicles of unknown whereabouts, 13 on (de-)registration, and additional 6 on reporting. Contributions on these topics were received from all stakeholder groups. 
 Workshop 
 Topics discussed at the workshop following the presentation of the consultants on the topic of missing vehicles were: 
 · The suitability of road-worthiness test where various stakeholders have different opinions on details of the use of such test, however, it is seen a ”key question”; 
 · ELV registration competencies, e.g., a Member States representative pointed out that EU-wide information exchange (database) on CoDs accessible by the EU registration authorities would be an effective tool, industry agreed. It was clarified that EUCARIS, the data exchange mechanism for vehicle data in Europe, does already have a CoD-message in place to exchange the CoD-info across Member States. EUCARIS is used by many EU Member States, however the CoD-message is currently not being used; 
 · vehicles deregistration, e.g., in relation to the limitations of temporary deregistration, harmonized rules, and automotive industry requested that an automatic deletion from the registration systems after seven years for example like in some MS should not be continued. Recyclers pointed out to the responsibilities of insurance companies and total technical loss status, but also the definition of an ELV compared to used vehicles 
 In general, many stakeholders engaged in the debate. Many of the stakeholders participating in the debate shared perspectives and experiences from MS, e.g. from Sweden or Germany (MS representatives), the Netherlands (stakeholders engages in repair and dismantling and EPR), Belgium (representative of the EPR system) or Latvia, Poland, France etc. (recyclers). Further, a representative of the Dutch EPR said that a good cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Infrastructure/transportation (etc.) is key […] to be able to monitor ELVs. Another idea presented by stakeholders were ‘massive citizens information about legal way to dispose your ELV’ (recycler + manufacturers). 
 2.3.10. 2.4.4. 
 EPR System 
 Statistical OPC 
 In the OPC, most stakeholders argued that in order to ensure a high quality of recycling, it is necessary to compensate ATFs for their dismantling efforts, which are not economically viable under the current conditions. This was mainly supported by environmental NGOs and consumer organizations, waste management operators, public authorities, and citizens but also a fair share of automotive producers (32%). When asked in more detail, 56% of all stakeholders agreed that producers should compensate the ATFs for their dismantling efforts and for appropriate treatment and disposal of these wastes. Here, waste management operators were the most prominent in their support of this aspect. 
 Written OPC 
 A few written contributions addressed Extended Producer Responsibility aspects, some only as a simple need that has to be implemented and others with more elaboration. Several stakeholders explained the purpose of an EPR scheme to be to affect the design of products so that they result in less negative environmental impacts. Others see the EPR scheme mainly as a funding opportunity to e.g. to balance costs for dismantling in particularly when secondary materials are more expensive than virgin materials, to boost investment in high-quality PST through economic incentives. One stakeholder raised the concern that the creation of an EPR monopoly dominated by producers could end up limiting the free and fair competitiveness of the current network of dismantlers and shredders. 
 Interviews 
 Waste management operator look at the establishment of an EPR positively, in particular where it is necessary to support the financing of components of materials that need to be dismantled and treated in a way that is not economical. Though EPRs exist for some MS, a difficulty was raised that they are usually run by OEMs without involving ATFs in their management. The difficulties in managing funds for a European EPR were raised in light of the frequent exports between countries and also the different costs that waste management results in each country that would make setting a single fee for an EPR fund at EU level tricky. 
 Workshop 
 Participants commented that there are concerns about what entity has authority over EPR schemes. A few stakeholders mentioned that funds have not shown big advantages to support the economic feasibility of ATFs and stated that the processes that ATFs should treat vehicles and then producers have to cover negative market value vehicles is the direction that the EPR should develop, with it being established in the Directive. In contrast it was mentioned that funds were effective in compensating unprofitable labour (material dismantling), allowing the dismantler to compete more effectively with the illegal sector and being less dependent on enforcement. A few stakeholders raised the aspect of the CoD and the need for more enforcement to lower illegal exports leading to less vehicles being treated in the EU. The EPR was mentioned as an option to address the problem of cars going to other continents and not just for ensuring financial feasibility of ELV treatment. 
 2.3.11. 2.4.5. 
 Scope of the ELV Directive 
 Statistical OPC 
 For almost all stakeholder categories participating in the OPC, over 50% of the individual answers were in favour of extending the Directive to additional vehicles. The highest support of this option was given by environmental organizations (100%), public authorities (90.9%) and waste management stakeholders (85.7%). On the question which additional vehicles should be included into the scope of the ELV Directive, the majority was in favour of adding motorcycles and lorries with a higher preference for lorries from the waste management operators and a higher preference for motorcycles from the manufacturers. 
 Avoidance of environmental harms to the environment thanks to minimum requirements for end-of-life treatment, increased resource recovery and increased recyclability were the top 3 important advantages of extending the scope of the ELV Directive largely supported by all stakeholder categories. Individual stakeholders explained that including them in the scope would increase the supply of recycled materials and lead to better dismantling, that heavy vehicles are exported to a larger extent than cars and reuse of spare parts is not as developed. And illegal vehicle dismantling, and unfair competition take place. This should be dealt with in the legislation. One third had no opinion on disadvantages of the scope extension. The most supported individual answers were that “These other vehicles (e.g., motorcycles and lorries) have features which are different from the vehicles covered by the ELV Directive, so that the provisions of the ELV Directive are not adapted to these other vehicles” (62 individuals or 30%) and “Higher burdens for SMEs” (48 individuals or 23%). Answers were distributed relatively evenly between the various categories. The stakeholders themselves relativised their statements on disadvantages when asked to detail: Though, “motorcycles are small, so it will be a lot of work for a very small amount of materials”, and “trucks [lorries] are big and require specialised facilities for dismantling”, stakeholders say that “recycling facilities are suitable for all of the ELV Directive scope”. “Today these vehicles [it is not clear which] are already treated in authorized facilities even if they are not covered by the scope of the Directive.” Or: “The ELV Directive change will result in some system changes and investment costs. It however involves an investment for the future. If the demand for recycled material is successfully established, it will pay itself back.” 
 More than one third of the stakeholders did not have an opinion on / did not know the areas where compliance for motorcycles and/or lorries would be difficult, and 15% said there are none. About 20% support that the following measures may be difficult to comply with: Material-specific recycling targets (45 individuals or 22%), reuse target (47 individuals or 23%), and recycled content target (38 individuals or 18%). 
 Written OPC 
 Various stakeholders from the motorcycles sector contributed additional information: ACEM emphasises that the sector consists of many SMEs that have no experience with the requirements of the current ELV Directive. Besides the quantitative results from a survey on the numbers of recycled motorcycles in Finland, SMOTO 
 49 
 brings forward the concern that the common reuse practices could be undermined by the perceived focus of the current ELV Directive on recycling rather than reuse. An anonymous stakeholder (motorcycle manufacturer) proposes non-reusable parts for motorcycles in addition to those listed in Art. 8 of the 3R Type approval Directive for M1 and N1 
 50 
 . FORS (a Polish recycling association) speaks for the practice of certificates of destruction for end-of-life motorcycles. A recyclability target is preferred whereas recycled content targets and reuse targets are explicitly not recommended for motorcycles (EUROFER 
 51 
 ). 
 For lorries, the Swedish Government considers it important to distinguish between light and heavy-duty vehicles. If lorries were included, the Czech Ministry of Environment sees “problems in their size and different composition of materials”. Generally, for new vehicles in scope, the regulation should prevent the phenomenon seen for missing vehicles, i.e., the avoidance of the EU end of life treatment requirements (Swedish Governmental Agencies). 
 Six contributions focus on historic cars and motorcycles. Current practice of exempting historic cars should be pursued. 
 Interviews 
 Relevant interviewees are ACEA and ACEM presenting the manufacturers of lorries and L-type approved vehicles, and ANERVI 
 52 
 /AETRAC 
 53 
 , EuRIC 
 54 
 and EGARA 
 55 
 representing the EoL stakeholders. To describe the status quo of the dismantling of lorries, the main messages in the interviews were that lorries are not just bigger cars, that depollution is in practice in some MS, that lorry recycling infrastructure is different in different Member States, and that ATFs that can manage a lorry also manages trailers. As for the status quo of EoL treatment of motorcycles, it was noted that reuse is impor tant, that L-type approved vehicles have no chassis which is relevant for the definition of what is an ELV. Then, a very small number of L-type approved vehicles are returned to recyclers, and that there is no statistics on motorcycles, e.g., no separate waste code, right now. 
 In relation to potential regulation covering additional vehicles, the clear message was sent that vehicles different to M1 and N1 vehicles require specific rules, e.g., that the same 3R targets could not apply, and that these vehicles potentially require different exemptions from heavy metal restrictions (or new substance restrictions). 
 Workshop 
 Views differed on exemptions for hazardous substances in additional vehicle categories. Vehicle manufacturers were in favour of a category specific Annex II, i.e., to review the application of existing Annex II bans per vehicle category. The issue was also brought up in relation to multi-stage built vehicles, incl. wheelchair accessible vehicles. There is also a difficulty if more than one vehicle category applies to a vehicle. 
 Stakeholders broadly support that it is currently not recommended to apply the 3R type approval Directive to multi-stage built vehicles. 
 In the workshop, various participants of all stakeholder groups commented on the presented data and/or provided additional data (on the calculation of the fleet of motorcycles and lorries, on actual fleet data from Spain and Germany). ACEA is currently performing a study on lorry, with results expected at a later stage. 
 A representative from the European Environmental Bureau (Environmental NGO) stated that, if the scope of these Directives is currently being discussed, the discussion should not be limited to a scope for only on-road vehicles. 
 2.3.12. 2.4.6. 
 3R Type-Approval and its relation to the ELV D irective 
 Current situation. Questions were asked to understand better the role of type-approval technical services’, the type-approval authorities’ and the OEMs’ in the process of type-approvals in general as well as the special part of the 3R type-approval in particular. Because this is more for the understanding of the current situation, the answers are not summarised here. 
 Effectiveness. Type approval authorities state that the Directive generally facilitates the a chievement of the 3R targets. This is also supported by OEMs. However, this is not supported with data. Stakeholders are of different opinion in relation to whether the 3R Directive facilitates “high-quality” recycling. There is no systematic monitoring or studies that compare between the targets reported in type approval declarations of OEMs for specific vehicle models and between their actual performance at end-of-life. Quantitative feedback is scattered. 
 The number of 3R Type Approvals performed per Member State varies largely: 
 · Some have not performed any type-approvals since Directive 2005/64/EC came into force (e.g., Latvia, Finland) but do report on Regular TAs for second stage of N vehicles. Some perform 3R type-approvals regularly (6-9 per annum). 
 · One authority estimated the costs for the process at “< 0.25 years FTE per each 3R type approval” 
 · Some Member States collect fees for the type-approval and some do not – amount also depends on certificate type (0-600 €). 
 · 3 of 5 Member States agreed that the 3R type-approval should cover all stages of multi-stage vehicles (2 did not answer the question) 
 A second cluster of question was asked around the possible future amendments of the ELV Directive. In general, little to no input is provided on impacts of introducing certain measures proposed to be changed in the 3R Directive. One stakeholder is of the opinion, that the scope of the 3R type-approval should be extended to include additional vehicles. 
 On the merge of ELV Directive and 3R Directive. Of the interviewed stakeholders, one is of the opinion that there is a missing link and missing references between 3R Directive and ELV Directive. Member States that perform 3R type-approvals were against a merge with ELV. At least, two times China was provided as an example where one legal instrument is in place, however, the European market would be more diverse according to stakeholders. Looking at the stakeholder groups that provided their input on this topic, it should be noted that the stakeholders rarely take the pers pective of the end-of-life. An ACEA position paper refers to the positions of the automotive industry in relation to the merge of 3R type-approval Directive and ELV Directive: ACEA “call[s] for the current legal framework to be maintained.” Rather than focusing on recyclability, they would like to see their engagement in the field of emission reductions during the use phase, i.e., strategies focusing on light weight, acknowledged framing it Design for Sustainability. 
 56 
 Another argument put forward (stakeholder shall not be named) is that currently, the responsibilities are distributed, i.e., recyclers fulfil the ELV Directive and manufacturers fulfil 3R type-approval Directive requirements. A merge of the Directives producing a legislation with joint responsibilities could increase innovation times and create longer discussion processes. 
 Annex 3: Who is affected and how? 
 This annex sets out the implications of the preferred policy package for all affected groups of stakeholders. It describes the actions that public authorities and economic operators might need to take in order to comply with the obligations under the revised legislation and indicates the expected costs and benefits to be incurred in complying with new obligations. Where quantitative information is not available, the overview on the nature and costs and benefits is provided. 
 3.1 Introduction 
 The stakeholders affected by the initiative are listed below. 
 Vehicle producers : they have traditionally been involved in facilitating the collection of ELVs across the EU (in line with the obligations set out in the ELV Directive). They also have to demonstrate to the type-approval competent authorities that new vehicle types comply with the provisions of the 3R TA Directive and the ELV Directive relating to recyclability, re-usability and recoverability and the restrictions of hazardous substances. Some vehicle producers have taken voluntary initiatives to promote the use of remanufactured components or the incorporation of recycled materials in new models. Overall, however, vehicles producers have not made the transition to a circular economy a priority in their overall sustainability strategies. They would be affected by measures aiming at changing the design and production of new vehicles (especially obligations linked to the use of recycled materials, the provision of information on the composition of vehicles to the dismantling and recycling sector and the development of circularity strategies), as well as by measures designed to increase the responsibility of producers in the collection and treatment of ELVs, especially through the establishment or reinforcement of EPR schemes. Producers of motorcycles and of lorries have until recently paid limited attention to the potential offered by the transition to a circular economy for their sector. The new legislation will strengthen the cooperation between the car manufacturers and the ATFs. For instance, the vehicle manufacturers would be required to provide ATFs with detailed instructions for the dismantling and disposal/recycling/reuse of all components of a vehicle type. These instructions will be submitted to the type approval authorities during type approval and be made available through the existing methodologies related to Repair and Maintenance Information (RMI). Furthermore, Manufacturers will have to make this information accessible to the relevant operators of the vehicle engaged into the end-of-life treatment. 
 Suppliers of vehicle producers : the suppliers of components and parts for the automotive industry have been affected by the restrictions on the use of hazardous substances set out in the ELV legislation. They would be affected by any new provisions affecting the design and production of vehicles. 
 Dismantlers: there are approximately 12,000 “authorised treatment facilities” in the EU, which are on the frontline for the dismantling of ELVs. Most of them are SMEs. Some are integrated in bigger units and companies which also comprise shredding activities. Some of them also have contractual links with car producers. They receive ELVs from their last owners, carry out their depollution and remove the most valuable parts and components. They make most of their business in the commercialisation of these parts removed and the sale of depolluted ELVs to shredders. Many of them also deal with “used vehicles” that they purchase and sell inside or outside the EU. They are directly affected by the provisions of the ELV Directive on collection, treatment and depollution, as well as on recycling/re-use and recovery targets. While they have to abide by the EU requirements, they face competition (both to receive ELV but also when selling spare parts) from the informal sector which collect ELVs and dismantle them in less environmentally sound manner. 
 Shredding/recycling companies: there are a few hundred 
 57 
 companies in the EU active in the sorting, shredding and processing of ELVs and waste fractions resulting from ELVs. Most of them are linked to large waste companies. They buy depolluted ELVs from ATFs, sell the resulting sorted and shredded materials to industries using secondary materials as feedstock in their production processes and send residual waste to landfills or incineration with energy recovery. Such companies are not evenly equipped with modern technologies, some of them having invested in “post-shredding technologies” allowing to better sort and decontaminate materials mixed during the shredding process, while other rely on more basic technology. They have traditionally been focusing on the commercialisation of ferrous and non-ferrous scrap, which are by far the most profitable waste fractions from ELVs. A large share of this metal scrap is exported outside the EU. Some of them however have been investing in plastics recycling and have called for the establishment of recycled content obligations for these materials in new vehicles to support their activities. 
 Industries relying on scraps as feedstock for their production: scrap/secondary materials from shredding companies are incorporated in the production processes of large industries (steel, aluminium, copper or plastics industries) which see them as an important feedstock for their decarbonisation. They have been calling for higher quality of materials which could replace primary materials and save additional amount of energy and greenhouse gas emissions. 
 Repair shops and garages: this group of stakeholders is composed of SMEs which would be affected mostly by measures impacting the purchase and selling of used parts and components. They are indeed important actors in the market of spare parts: this is the case both of new spare parts, which they buy from vehicle manufacturers or spare part suppliers and used spare parts stemming from ATFs or other garages. Measures dedicated to support reuse of remanufactured and used parts would enlarge the supply of used parts to these stakeholders but could also generate additional administrative burden for them compares to the baseline scenario. 
 Companies involved in the export of used vehicles: most companies exporting used vehicles outside the EU are SMEs. This is the case of some garages or ATFs which sell used vehicles as part of their regular business activities. There are also companies which exercise exclusively these activities, buying used cars from garages, insurance companies or individual owners, and organising their export to non-EU countries. They will be affected by the measures designed to ensure a better control on the interdiction to export ELVs outside the OECD, as well as by the new measures governing the export of used vehicles (only authorised upon presentation of a roadworthiness certificate). The companies specialised in the export of used cars will be the most affected. They would incur costs linked to the obligation for them to carry out roadworthiness tests for vehicles which are currently exported after the certificate has expired. In addition, they are likely to see a decrease in revenues linked to a reduction in the export of used vehicles which do not meet the conditions to obtain a roadworthiness certificate. They would then have to sell these vehicles as ELVs to ATFs in the EU, at a much lower price than what they could have obtained for exporting them. 
 Insurance companies: insurance companies are amongst the largest owners of ELVs, which own on average 14% of ELVs obtained from their customers after accidents 
 58 
 . A few of these companies have adopted an ambitious approach based on circular economy considerations, but the majority of them have so far shown little interest in this dimension and are mostly interested in getting the highest prices for the ELVs and used vehicles that they sell, often in bulks in auction sales. 
 EU Consumers/citizens: EU consumers and citizens have little information to date on the environmental stakes linked to the design, production and end-of-life treatment of vehicles. This is partly due to a lack of proactive information on this issue by the automotive industry 
 59 
 . Consumers might be affected by changes in EU legislation to improve the re-use, remanufacturing and recycling of vehicles, which could lead to an increase in the price of new vehicles. Changes designed to boost the market for used spare parts might on the other hand lower the prices of these parts, to the benefits of consumers who have to change parts (for example during repair operations), as used parts are usually considerably cheaper than new parts. 
 Non-EU stakeholders : non-EU stakeholders are mostly affected by the export from the EU of used vehicles and ELVs, which constitute an important supply for the automotive market in some countries, especially on the African continent. 
 Society as a whole : the challenges linked to the implementation of the ELV and 3R type-approval Directives are also relevant to the society as a whole, in as much as they can greatly help reducing the environmental footprint and associated harm to the environment linked to the production and end-of-life treatment of vehicles. The transition of the sector to a circular economy would also bring with it considerable environmental gains. 
 · Administrations in the Member States : different national administrations in the Member States are responsible for the implementation of the ELV and 3R type-approval directives (from environment Ministries or agencies, type-approval authorities, market surveillance authorities, inspection services and customs) authorities. They would be affected by the adoption of new measures, which will create additional burden linked to the reporting on new data and information, as well as the implementation and enforcement of new obligations for economic actors. For instance, upon entry into effect of the new legislation, the competent authorities of the Member States will have increased responsibilities in two fronts: 1) ensuring the market surveillance of newly type-approved vehicles; 2) monitoring, reporting on the overall performance of ATFs and other corresponding actors of the automotive sector through implementing reporting obligations. 
 3.2 Summary of costs and benefits 
 Table 3.1 Overview of benefits 
 I. Overview of Benefits (total for all provisions, compared to a “business as usual baseline”) – Preferred Option - in 2035 
 Description 
 Amount 
 Comments 
 Direct benefits - materials 
 Materials recycled at higher quality (in addition to baseline) 
 +5,400 ktons 
 Total amount: this covers materials used as recycled content, treated at higher quality and collected more. 
 Plastics used as recycled content in new vehicles 
 +710 ktons 
 Post-consumer plastics used in new vehicles 
 Materials reused, removed and recycled at higher quality (current vehicle scope) 
 +2,300 ktons 
 Steel: Reuse +600 ktons; Recycled +860 ktons; 
Aluminium: Reuse +120 ktons; Recycling +330 ktons 
Copper: Reuse +15 kton; Recycled +82 ktons 
Glass: Recycled +160 kton 
Plastics: Reused +87 kton; Recycled +160 kton 
CRMs - REEs: Recycled +2.4 kton 
 Materials collected and treated more 
 +1,900 ktons 
 Steel: +1,550 ktons 
Aluminium: +240 ktons 
Copper: +31 ktons 
Plastics: + 60 ktons 
Platinum in catalysts: +7 tons 
 Materials reused, removed and recycled at higher quality from extended scope 
 +510 ktons 
 Motorcycles: + 57 ktons 
Heavy-duty vehicles: + 450 ktons 
 Direct benefits – Economic revenues (in current value) 
 Revenues from improved collection and recycling 
 +2,400 million EUR 
 Total value of revenues and avoided costs for materials used as recycled content, treated at higher quality and collected more. 
 Plastics used as recycled content in new vehicles 
 +600 million EUR 
 Post-consumer plastics used in new vehicles: shredders and PST operators 
 Materials reused, removed and recycled at higher quality (current vehicle scope) 
 +1,380 million EUR 
 ATFs: +110 million EUR (net revenues) 
Shredders/ PST operators: +1,090 million EUR 
Recyclers: +170 million EUR 
 Materials collected and treated more 
 +360 million EUR 
 ATFs: + 328 million EUR 
Shredders/ PST operators: +29 million EUR 
 Materials reused, removed and recycled at higher quality from extended scope 
 +81 million EUR 
 ATFs: + 42 million EUR 
 Recyclers: +39 million EUR 
 GHG savings 
(- = reduction) 
 -12,300 kton CO2eq 
 Production share only: 
Plastics recycled content: -310 kton CO2eq 
Reuse and recycling: -4,540 kton CO2eq 
Increased collection: -6,350 kton CO2eq 
Scope extension: -1,120 kton CO2eq 
 Energy savings plastics recycled content 
(- = reduction) 
 -7,300 GWh (plastics) 
 Plastics recycled content 
-4.5 million barrels of oil eq. 
 Reduced air pollution emissions, plastics recycling 
 +13 
 Reduced decease incidences due to particulate matter 
 ELVs collected and treated more 
 +3.8 million vehicles 
 +3.2 million for N1,M1; +0.6 million for scope extension. Includes 1.1 million vehicles more from illegal/ informal treatment EU, in total 65% less low value used vehicles and ELVs exported less for N1,M1 
 Export reduction used vehicles + ELVs 
 -2.1 million vehicles 
 Indirect benefits 
 Additional EU jobs 
 +22,100 
 Of which: 
 Manufacturers: +7,200 
SMEs: ATFs and shredders: +14,200 
 Improved resource efficiency 
 Not quantified 
 Manufacturers 
 Reduced environmental externalities of mismanaged waste and health risks in third countries 
 Not quantified 
 Reduced offer of second-hand vehicles in 3rd countries” expected with 2.1 million vehicles and “increase in prices of second hand vehicles in 3rd countries”. Improved quality of vehicles exported with a valid roadworthiness. Many importing countries are taking measures to ban the import of second hand cars over a certain age, or below certain emission levels. 
 Lower amounts of landfill 
 Not quantified 
 Waste management sector 
 Improved recycling rates vehicles 
 +5% 
 Based on improved recycling definitions, 
 main benefits are improved recycling quality 
 Lower repair costs from 2nd-hand spare parts 
 Not quantified 
 Vehicle owners, reduced costs by avoiding new spare parts. Rough estimation is a 50% lower parts costs on average, very dependent on the type of parts and age of the vehicle 
 More legitimate income 
 Not quantified 
 Waste management sector 
 Increased tax revenue 
 Not quantified 
 Member States 
 Administrative cost savings related to the ‘one in, one out’ approach* 
 Not applicable 
 Not applicable 
 Not applicable 
 For more details per policy option and for 2030 and 2040, see Annex 8. 
 With respect to one out costs, there are no ‘one out’ costs included. There is however, potentially reduced administrative burdens not included as a result of the aimed digitalisation of vehicle registration documents facilitating the exchange of information between Member States on their registers. This line is worth up to 1 EUR per vehicle and thus 9.8 million EUR of recurrent savings when fully implemented. It benefits ATFs in particular due to more streamlined issuing and tracking of CoDs. The saving is however not included for this impact assessment as it results primarily from the general digitalisation of the national vehicle registration system under DG MOVE’s impact assessment 
 60 
 of the roadworthiness package and Directive 2014/46/EU on vehicle registration documents. 
 Table 3.2 Overview of costs 
 II. Overview of costs – Preferred option, compared to a “business as usual baseline”, 
 all values in million EUR, in 2035, current value 
 Citizens/Consumers 
 Businesses 
 Administrations 
 One-off 
 Recurrent 
 One-off 
 Recurrent 
 One-off 
 Recurrent 
 Design circular PO1 
 Direct administrative costs 
 Manufacturers: 2.370 
 Manufacturers: 5.20; ATFs, shredders 0.16 
 EC: 0.200 
 Type approval: 0.014; market surveillance 0.191 
 Recycled content plastics and steel PO2 
 Direct adjustment costs 
 Plastic recyclers capacity investment: 690 
 Manufacturers: 392, Recyclers 284 
 Direct administrative costs 
 Manufacturers 0.24 
 Recycling PO3 
 Direct adjustment costs 
 ATFs: 491 
Shredders/ PST operators: 1,230 
Recyclers: 83 
 Direct administrative costs 
 ATFs: 16.2 
Shredders/ PST operators: 12.9 
Recyclers: 2.52 
 MS waste authorities 0.043 
 Collection and EPR (PO4,5) 
 Direct adjustment costs 
 Reduced export value: 151 
 Specialised export car dealers: 523 
 Direct administrative costs 
 Manufacturers: 32.1 
 MS waste authorities 1.35 
 MS waste, 4.87; MS vehicle registration 16.6; EC: 0.850 
 Scope extension PO6 
 Direct adjustment costs 
 Specialised exporters HDV: 51; ATFs: 39 
 Direct administrative costs 
 Private vehicle owners (L3e-L7e): 2.331 
 Manufacturers L: 0.056; Manufacturers HDV: 0.026 
 Manufacturers: 0.016, ATFs: 10.4; HDV vehicle owners: 0.574 
 MS waste authorities 0.280 
 Costs related to the ‘one in, one out’ approach (in million EUR) 
 Total 
 Direct adjustment costs 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 Indirect adjustment costs 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 n.a. 
 Administrative costs (for offsetting) 
 0 
 2.331 
 2.452 
 79.720 
 Detailed recurrent and one-off costs per measure and policy option are provided in Tables 8.29 to 8.37 in Annex 8.3. 
 3.3 Relevant sustainable development goals 
 Figure 3 visualises the contribution of the policy options to the SDGs. On the left-hand ‘design and production’ side of the diagram, policy options PO1 and PO2 contribute mostly to sustainable innovations (SDG9), responsible consumption and production with a lower environmental footprint (SDG12) and climate action (SDG13). The collection and recycling options PO3 and PO4 contribute to the same SDGs and to less pollution water and air pollution (SDG14 and SDG15) to a lesser extent. PO5 will improve partnerships for the goals (SDG17). 
 Figure 3.1 Contribution of the Regulation to the SDGs 
 As demonstrated in the figure, the implementation of the preferred option of the joint revision of the ELV and 3R type-approval directives will make a significant contribution to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, promoting responsible consumption and production, decent work and economic growth, industry, innovation and infrastructure, and climate action. More detailed description is provided in the table below. 
 Table 3.8 Overview of relevant SDGs 
 III. Overview of relevant Sustainable Development Goals – Preferred Option 
 Relevant SDG 
 Expected progress towards the Goal 
 Comments 
 SDG no. 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure 
 The revised guidelines will promote the use of cutting-edge technologies and services, leading to increased innovation in the automotive industry and improved infrastructure for the automotive recycling sector. The use of advanced technologies and services in the automotive sector (e.g. development of PST, improvement of sorting operations) will contribute to the development of smart industry, innovation and infrastructure. 
 Representing 27% of the region’s total R&D investments, the automotive industry is Europe’s largest R&D investor. In 2021, Automotive R&D investment (EU) was equal to 58.8 billion Eur. The new requirements will increase the investment need, e.g. recycled content for plastic is estimated to have a need to boost recycling capacity by 69 million EUR by 2035. 
 SDG no. 12 – Responsible consumption and production 
 The implementation of the new legislation will increase the reusability, recyclability and recoverability of vehicles and their components, thus promoting more responsible and sustainable consumption and production practices throughout the automotive value chain. More precise and stricter European end-of-life rules, focusing on the reuse of spare parts and high-quality treatment, will require that end-of-life vehicles are treated efficiently and that their parts are reused or recycled in wherever possible. Clearer requirements for 3R type-approval of vehicles (e.g. disassembly requirements, adoption of a circularity strategy, use of recycled content) will ensure that vehicles are designed in a more sustainable way, to reduce their environmental impact. 
 The implementation of the preferred measures will result in additional 5.4 million t of materials recycled at higher quality or reused than today. 
 350 tons of rare earth permanent magnet materials would be separately collected for reuse and recycling in 2035, which would contribute greatly to the EU efforts for strategic autonomy for CRMs. That will also allow better quality secondary materials to be available on the market. Incentives to support reuse of spare parts will make the vehicle maintenance to be more affordable by a roughly 50% of lower costs depended on the model, type. 
 SDG no. 13 – Climate action 
 Setting a comprehensive EU wide legal framework that covers design, production and end-of-life treatment of vehicles will reduce the environmental footprint of vehicles throughout their lifecycle, contributing to efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change. The major contribution is expected though the reduced dependence of primary materials and mandatory uptake of recycled content in manufacturing new vehicles. This shift will accelerate the decarbonisation of automotive industry which is one of the biggest contributors to CO 2 emissions. 
 The production of vehicles and their components involves energy-intensive processes requiring large amounts of energy, which is often generated from the burning of fossil fuels, leading to GHG emissions. The transportation of components also results in additional emissions. Implementation of the new legislation will result in annual reduction of 12.3 million tons of CO2-eq in 2035. ( 10.8 million tons in 2030 to 14.0 million tonnes in 2040), key for the decarbonisation of the automotive industry. These CO 2 savings represent 2.8 billion EUR when monetised. 
 SDG no. 14 – Life below water 
 The new legislation is expected to contribute to SDG14 in several ways: 
 Conservation of marine life and ecosystems: SDG14 aims to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources. The initiative emphasizes the importance of reuse, recovery and recycling of end-of-life vehicles. Clearer requirements for depollution and disposal of end-of-life vehicles, as well as stricter regulations on the export of used cars in working order from the EU to third countries will reduce the risks pollution of water and ecosystems. Resource conservation: the new legislation will help conserve resources by encouraging the reuse and recycling of end-of-life vehicles, increasing the secondary use of spare parts and reducing dependence on raw materials. Increased use of recycled materials and improved quality of ELV processing will address the triggers of climate change and its effects on marine life and ecosystems. 
 Today, the problem of "missing vehicles" leads to illegal dismantling in the EU or illegal export outside the EU. In all cases, the treatment of ELVs and the recovery of materials from these ELVs do not comply with the requirements and cause environmental damage, such as oil spills, improper treatment of refrigerants or improper disposal of hazardous substances. and components for better recycling quality. 
 Successful enforcement of export requirements is expected to prevent 2.1 million unroadworthy (not-roadworthy) vehicles from being not exported from the EU to third countries. In total 65% less low value used vehicles and ELVs will be exported than today. These initiatives address the problems presented in UNEP report 
 61 
 where a significant part of the used vehicles exported to African countries do not meet Euro 4/IV emissions standard, i.e., they are older than 15 years, and do not have a valid roadworthiness certificate. They present a serious risk of polluting the environment and for road safety. 
 SDG no. 15 – Life on land 
 All the measures of the preferred option aiming to collect more ELVs and to improve the treatment conditions will contribute to the protection of biodiversity, ecosystems, water quality. Reduction of air pollution: Old and highly polluting vehicles emit high levels of air pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, and greenhouse gases. By regulating export of such vehicles, the levels of air pollution in non-EU countries will be reduced, protecting the environment and preserving life on land. These measures will also help to protect wildlife and their habitats. This is particularly important in areas where the impact of air pollution on the environment is already significant. 
 Support for local communities: By reducing the EU's external pollution footprint resulting from the export of poor-driving vehicles, the new rules will help local communities and improve road safety and overall quality lives of people living in the most vulnerable third. countries. 
 SDG no.17 – Partnerships for the goals 
 The implementation of the measures will promote collaboration between different actors from governments to automotive industry and ELV operators that will contribute to the achievement of common environmental and sustainability objectives. The most intensive cooperation is expected in the implementation of the ERP requirements. This will involve sharing best practices, technology and knowledge, as well as developing new partnerships to support sustainable production and consumption practices in the automotive industry. Accordingly, enforcement of EU export requirements for the used vehicles will boost partnerships both intra- and extra-EU. 
 For a smooth implementation of EPR requirements, Member States will be required to designate an independent competent authority (“clearinghouse”) to monitor producers' compliance with mandatory requirements for end-of-life treatment of ELVs. It will ensure the dialogue between vehicle manufacturers and ELV operators in the assessment of the compensation of costs related to mandatory treatment operations, e.g. collection, depollution, dismantling and recycling of ELVs. 
 Annex 4: Analytical methods 
 3 
 4 
 4.1 Main sources 
 This impact assessment relies on a multitude of sources, including the evaluation of the ELV Directive, evaluation of the 3RTA Directive (see separate Annex), a literature review, an open public consultation, targeted interviews with a number of stakeholders from Member States, industry and non-governmental organisations, and a two-day stakeholder workshop. 
 Three studies are particularly carried out to support this impact assessment: 
 · a comprehensive IA support study by Oeko-Institut 
 62 
 , which includes a custom-made impact assessment model for the purpose of this revision, 
 · a study by the Commission Joint Research Centre (JRC) entitled “ Towards recycled plastic content targets in new passenger cars “ 
 63 
 , 
 · a JRC study focusing particularly on critical raw materials in vehicles 
 64 
 . 
 This Annex provides information on the analytical methods used to identify and screen the measures described in this impact assessment, as well as for assessing their environmental, social and economic impacts. 
 In the following sections, the individual tables summarise the main environmental and economic impacts for each of the policy options. The main year of comparison is 2035 and the number of collected ELVs expected to derive in that year from the model calculation. In most cases such calculations are based on all types of ELVs, in specific cases only the relevant share of specific types of EVs (ICE, EV, hybrids and plug-in hybrids) are covered due to different assumptions and relevancies for the different vehicle categories. 
 For the environmental impacts, net global warming potential and the amounts of materials recovered (in addition) are chosen as the main categories to summarise results. Some of the measures target an improvement in the quality of materials recycled from vehicles and not just an increase in quantity. 
 The different recycling qualities have a financial significance which is captured in the calculation of revenues from recycled material. Data for other years are available in Annex 8 – Summary of costs and benefits. In the tables below, when referring to monetary impacts, the minus symbol is used when a cost is referred to (a negative monetary impact) and a plus when a revenue is referred to (a positive monetary impact). 
 4.2 Structuring of measures and options 
 2.3.13. 4.2.1 
 Identification and screening of measures 
 In line with the Commission better regulation guidelines 
 65 
 , the identification and screening of measures analysed in this impact assessment have been done on the basis of the criteria described below. The application of these criteria to the measures assessed to meet the various objectives of this revision is presented in detail in the IA support study by the Oeko-Institut. 
 2.3.14. 4.2.2 
 Structuring of options and impacts calculation order 
 The Better Regulation Guidance (BRG), tool # 16 on the structuring of options is followed. 
 Figure 4.1 Structuring of options and calculation of joint impacts 
 While there are links between the 5 specific objectives plus the EPR supporting objectives, they respond to specific problems, have distinct features and denominators, and affect different stakeholders. It has therefore been chosen for this impact assessment to first treat all 5 specific objectives plus the EPR one as if they are unrelated (in line with the BRG Tool#16 - Figure 1b approach). For each of these problems, specific objectives and options are developed (in section 5), their impacts assessed (in section 6) and compared (in section 7), and finally the best performing option selected for each problem (section 8.1). However, in view of the links between these problems and options, the preferred package of option also takes into account the synergies between them, especially the amplification effects linked to the additional ELVs collected under PO4 and the incentives provided through the EPR schemes under PO5. These synergies are also calculated when presenting the combination of the overall impact of the preferred package (section 8.2).The collection and EPR options PO4 and PO5 determine the amount of materials available for treatment (PO3) and the recycled amounts for the availability of materials for the recycled content target (PO2). They are therefore computed in that sequence. After selecting the preferred option for EPR, the influence of this on the other preferred options for collection and recycling is first determined individually as an amplification to the preferred options . After this step, the joint impacts, in particular the influence of increased collection that multiplies the effect of improved treatment are determined as illustrated in above Figure 4.1. Following this logic throughout is selected as the most careful way to prevent ‘circular references’. In all relevant tables, this two-step aggregation of joint impacts is labelled first as ‘preferred – individual’ versus secondly as ‘preferred – combined’. 
 The preferred package of options therefore takes into consideration the interlinkages between problems and options, is based on a careful balance in that respect and provides the most efficient, effective and consistent solution to all identified problems. The elements contained in section 7 on the comparison of options provide an assessment of each option and allow to perform calculations for a large number of combinations of options, which could be alternative to the preferred package. This impact assessment report does not provide for the assessment of the impacts of such alternative combinations of options, as this would not be proportionate and not required under the Commission better regulation guidelines. However, the information provided in section 7 is sufficiently comprehensive and transparent to allow stakeholders and policy-makers to perform such assessment, for example if they consider than one objective should be given higher importance compared to another one. As indicated above, the preferred package of options takes into consideration the interlinkages between problems and options and is based on a careful balance in that respect, so that alternative choices for a preferred option would not be as effective and efficient as the proposed preferred package. 
 4.3 Analysis of impacts 
 The economic, environmental and social impacts of the proposed measures were assessed in line with the better regulation guidelines. 
 4.3.1 Datasets 
 The methodology used to assist in the determination of impacts uses both quantitative data and analytical tools. 
 Data on the current and projected vehicle production and on the number of vehicles becoming ELVs are key in that regard. The initial life cycle stages of resource extraction, material processing and vehicle assembly were aggregated to the common process of ‘vehicle production’. Thus, the mass flows start with the ‘sales’ stage which includes the carbon footprint of the vehicle production (e.g. carbon footprint, x ton of CO2eq per vehicle; material footprint, such as for example x kg copper per vehicle). The vehicle life cycle ends with recycling and recovery of secondary materials. 
 The model covers a period up to the year 2035. Results for the fleet of vehicles are available for the years 2020 to 2035. Not extending the modelling period beyond 2035 seems sensible in view of the unpredictable technical possibilities and developments, especially in the development of the vehicle fleet. As a starting point for comparison – mainly for developing, checking and adapting modelled vehicle mass flows – the time series used went back to the year 2009 for all applications except for ICEVs which have been modelled back to 1990. The most recent data from ACEA are available for the reference year 2020. The future perspective is based on data from the Euro 7 impact assessment 
 66 
 . 
 For each individual life cycle stage, the mass flows are differentiated into the relevant engine types of ELVs. The following engine types are addressed in the model: Internal combustion engines (ICEs), battery electric vehicles (BEVs), Hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) and Plug-in-Hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs). Passenger cars with other propulsion systems, such as fuel cell vehicles (FCEV), were excluded from this study, as only very few of these vehicles are expected to be in use during the period considered in the scenarios. In the context of this study, natural gas vehicles are treated as ICEs as they are based on the same principles using a different fossil fuel. FCEV are comparable to BEVs since they also contain a battery and an electric motor, resulting in a very roughly comparable resource demand (when excluding the fuel cell itself). 
 4.3.2 Vehicle composition data 
 To model the material composition of passenger cars, data from JRC-RMIS 
 67 
 on the composition of passenger cars was used, supplemented by data from the Greet model (Argonne 2021). The percentage composition was calculated down to the average weight of ELVs in the EU according to Eurostat. 
 Table 4.1 Material composition of End-of-life vehicles (passenger cars) in kg after depollution 
 68 
 . 
 Material 
 ICEV 
 HEV 
 PHEV 
 EV 
 Steel 
 653 
 660 
 621 
 642 
 Cast Iron 
 101 
 101 
 96 
 16 
 Wrought Aluminium 
 40 
 58 
 76 
 108 
 Cast Aluminium 
 79 
 91 
 93 
 77 
 Copper 
 14 
 20 
 23 
 35 
 Magnesium 
 5 
 5 
 5 
 1 
 Manganese 
 8 
 8 
 8 
 7 
 Glass 
 24 
 21 
 22 
 26 
 Average Plastic 
 159 
 129 
 143 
 166 
 Rubber 
 41 
 34 
 38 
 39 
 Glass-Fibre-Reinforced Plastic 
 9 
 4 
 5 
 5 
 Others 
 5 
 6 
 7 
 14 
 Total 
 1,137 
 1,137 
 1,137 
 1,137 
 The model delivers mass flows based on the development of different types of vehicles. It includes passenger cars with a variety of different propulsion types (internal combustion engine (ICE), hybrid electric vehicles (HEV), plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV) and battery electric vehicles (BEV). Furthermore, the model also includes light commercial vehicles, heavy commercial vehicles and buses. The fleet model for all vehicles is based on the model used for the Euro 7 impact assessment 
 69 
 . The data were supplemented by additional information from other sources. The overall development has been cross-checked with scenarios used by the JRC. 
 4.3.3 Number and types of vehicles entering and leaving the fleet 
 The table below shows the sales of passenger cars in the EU split by propulsion types according to statistical data from ACEA and the predicted forecast according to Euro 7 impact assessment. 
 Figure 4.2 Sales of passenger cars in the EU (2009-2035) 
 70 
 Since this only covers the fraction of newly registered vehicles, the vehicle stock had to be modelled. To cover the accurate number of vehicles in the stock, the model takes into account all registrations dating back to 1990 based on ACEA data (ACEA 2009-2019, OICA 2020). 
 The figure below shows the development of the stock of passenger cars in the EU split by propulsion types. 
 Figure 4.3 Development of the stock of passenger cars in the EU 
 71 
 In order to determine the volumes of ELVs, it is necessary to estimate the duration of the use phase of the vehicles. To describe the probability of a vehicle reaching its end-of-life, a Weibull distribution has been used. Since no long-term data on the lifetimes of EVs are currently available, estimates based on literature, interviews with the automotive industry and own expert judgement have been used to determine reasonable assumptions for the lifetime of EVs (Ricardo 2015, Møller Andersen 2008, Buchert et al. 2017, Buchert et al 2019, Mehlhart et al. 2017). The figure below depicts the curve used for ICEs, EVs, PHEVs and HEVs. The distribution shows the probability of the number of years after which a newly registered vehicle reaches its end of life. Accordingly, e.g. 14% of all vehicles that have been registered 15 years ago will reach the EoL. 
 Figure 4.4 EoL Weibull distribution for vehicles 
 72 
 The model calculates the volumes of ELVs for each year based on the lifetime distribution shown above. This represents the total volume of ELVs available for collection. The total volume available for recycling in the case of ELVs is reduced due to some losses. There are two main types of losses. Firstly, export losses and secondly, unknown whereabouts. 
 In the assessment report of the ELV directive, Mehlhart et al. (2017) pointed out that in 2014 app. 12 million vehicles were estimated to become ELVs in the EU, 51% of which were reported. App. 10 % of the used vehicles were exported (outside the EU) and 39 % had unknown whereabouts. It is assumed that half of the unknown were exported to non-Community countries and half were dismantled within the EU without reporting. This assumption leads to an estimated export rate of 35 % which has been used for the baseline for HEVs and PHEVs since these vehicles are similar to ICEVs. BEVs, on the other hand, are expected to be exported to a lesser extent, since they require a charging infrastructure which is not available in all countries outside the EU. Hence, the export rate applied for used BEVs is 10 %. The figure below shows the development of ELVs available for recycling in the EU split by split by propulsion types. 
 Figure 4.5 Development of ELVs available for recycling in the EU 
 73 
 Table 4.2 ELVs available for treatment (PTW, lorries, buses, trailers) 
 Category 
 2020 
 2021 
 2022 
 2023 
 2024 
 2025 
 2026 
 2027 
 2028 
 2029 
 2030 
 L 
 1,336,572 
 1,362,667 
 1,388,348 
 1,413,449 
 1,437,763 
 1,461,075 
 1,483,176 
 1,503,903 
 1,523,145 
 1,540,863 
 1,557,104 
 M2,M3 
 28,061 
 28,449 
 28,822 
 29,182 
 29,527 
 29,859 
 30,177 
 30,483 
 30,780 
 31,070 
 31,359 
 N2,N3 
 212,025 
 216,992 
 222,048 
 227,193 
 232,418 
 237,708 
 243,023 
 248,291 
 253,441 
 258,410 
 263,158 
 O 
 1,007,722 
 1,039,377 
 1,072,220 
 1,106,517 
 1,142,498 
 1,180,362 
 1,220,275 
 1,262,369 
 1,306,737 
 1,353,423 
 1,402,422 
 Source: Calculated as M1 and N1 ELVs based on stock data from the PRIMES model for lorries and buses, calculated based on Eurostat and linear forecast according to development from 2015-2019 for trailers; calculated based on Eurostat using the trend in the EU Reference Scenario for PTW. 
 These numbers build the baseline for the analysis of the impacts for the policy options on scope extension. For L-category vehicles it is assumed that a) the major share is already currently taken back by dealers and then either sent to shredders or to dismantlers for further treatment, and b) the major share is not subject to exports at their EoL, i.e. there are no additional vehicles being treated at ATFs. For lorries and buses it is assumed that a) the majority of the above numbers is already treated in ATFs and b) they are subject to exports, i.e. only the share of EoL lorries and buses which will not get a roadworthiness certificate for export anymore will be new / in addition be treated at ATFs under policy option PO6. 
 The following methodology was applied to assess the share of vehicles which might not pass the future requirement of a valid roadworthiness certificate under PO6B: 
 The vehicle categories 870422, 870423, 870432, 871639xx and 8702 were assessed at the level of the 8-digit CN-codes with the following approach (for more details, see Oeko-Institut Impact Assessment support study 
 74 
 ): 
 1. Identification of the average value of the intra EU trade with new vehicles per CN code. 
 2. Definition of a function on the share of non-eligible vehicles, depending on the distance to the average value of a new vehicle as displayed in the Figure 2 1. 
 3. Calculation of the number of non-exportable vehicles with the above function. 
 4. Estimation for the economic impact. 
 4.3.4 Recycling 
 Since the model includes detailed information related to material compositions of the different vehicles, it allows for the estimation of recycling potentials. The recycling of the end-of-life vehicles is modelled in different steps: depollution, dismantling, shredding, post-shredder technologies (PST) and material specific recycling processes. The steps of depollution, dismantling and shredding were modelled using data from Sander et al. (2020). The PST was calculated using data from JRC. The following table shows the efficiency rates for different materials that have been used in the model. In the second column (‘Recycling rate (ASR + PST)’) recovery rates from shredder (ASR) and post shredder treatment (PST) from literature and interviews are given for different materials. In the third column (‘Recycling rate (specific process)’) recovery rates for the materials specific recycling processes are given, e. g. the recovery rate for steel recycling in an electric arc furnace. The percentages refer to the input that goes into the shredding process and the specific recycling process, respectively, not to the original composition of the ELVs. The efficiency rates here only include those quantities that were recovered as material, not of those quantities where, for example, glass was used for backfilling or aluminium was used as a reducing agent in steel recycling. 
 Table 4.3 Efficiency rates for different materials in ASP + PST and specific recycling processes 
 75 
 Material 
 Efficiency rates (ASR + PST) 
 Efficiency rates (specific process) 
 Steel 
 99% 
 88.0% 
 Cast Iron 
 99% 
 88.0% 
 Wrought Aluminium 
 85% 
 94.5% 
 Cast Aluminium 
 85% 
 94.5% 
 Copper 
 85% 
 76.3% 
 Glass 
 0% 
 99.5% 
 Average Plastics 
 24% 
 95.0% 
 PP 
 40% 
 95.0% 
 PUR 
 0% 
 95.0% 
 Nylon 
 0% 
 95.0% 
 PE 
 40% 
 95.0% 
 ABS 
 37% 
 95.0% 
 PET 
 0% 
 95.0% 
 In the case of reused parts, an environmental credit is calculated based on the environmental burdens of primary production of the corresponding material. 
 4.3.5 Data and scenarios for the whereabout of (used) vehicles 
 To assess the impacts of the diverse measures addressing the aspect of “missing vehicles” the IA support study of Oeko-Institut distinguishes different categories of whereabouts as follows: 
 A. ELVs directed to ATFs and subsequently to shredders and reported by ATFs and MS (ATF, reported) 
 B. ELVs directed to ATFs and subsequently to shredders but not reported (ATFs, not reported) 
 C. ELVs directed to non-ATFs and subsequently to shredders, not reported (non-ATF) 
 D. Used Vehicles exported (extra EU) and reported accordingly (Export, reported) 
 E. Used Vehicles exported (extra EU) but not reported (Export, not reported) 
 F. ELVs exported (extra EU), not reported (ELVs export, not reported) 
 G. Missing vehicles = B) + C) + E) + F) 
 The following table displays the assumptions for the current situation (last data available for 2019) and the assumptions for the scenarios. 
 The total ELVs arising in Column 4 are taken from the sales of passenger cars in the EU (2009-2035) 
 76 
 and the EoL Weibull distribution for vehicles both displayed above. The 7 columns to the right of the table display the changes (shift) in % points compared to the percentage points for the current situation. 
 The environmental impacts are calculated with the data displayed for the material composition of the different types of vehicles and the environmental impacts and in the subsequent section. 
 Table 4.4 Vehicle fleet data, options refer to Impact Assessment study 
 77 
 4.3.6 Scope extension 
 The methodology for the scope extension is described in a dedicated Annex to the IA support study by Oeko-Institut. 
 4.4 Modelling environmental impacts 
 The environmental assessment is based on a life cycle approach. The entire life cycle of vehicles is taken into account: from the extraction of primary resources and energy sources, the production of the vehicles to the recycling processes of the ELVs and disposal of materials at the end of the life cycle. 
 A full range of impacts and thus a relevant share of the results of the policy options are directly linked and proportional to the mass flows. This applies especially to environmental impacts. Some economic data are as well directly linked to mass flows depending on the policy options that are selected for assessment. 
 The main environmental impact category that is given as a default by the model is the global warming potential (GWP in t CO2eq) (CO2-equivalents = CO2eq). 
 A further 10 environmental impact categories can be called up via the model, including e.g. acidification potential, ozone layer depletion, photochemical oxidation or eutrophication. These impacts are linked to individual life cycle stages of the mass flows. Other life cycle stages with relevant environmental impacts are ‘recycling’ and a comparison of the production of primary and secondary materials (e.g. steel, aluminium, copper, plastics and glass). 
 LCA studies and LCA databases are the source for the calculation of the environmental impacts. 
 4.4.1 LCA data 
 The calculation of the environmental impacts of ELVs takes into account different life cycle stages, including upstream processes. Results are generated according to different environmental impact categories. The calculation presented in this study is based on the ecoinvent database (ecoinvent 3.8) 
 78 
 , the “openLCA” (openLCA 2022) LCA tool 
 79 
 and further literature data. The quantification of environmental impacts of ELVs focuses on material production (incl. upstream processes such as mining and further processing, regardless of whether inside or outside the EU) and the recycling of the end-of-life vehicles. 
 The following sections describe the applied methodology and main assumptions used for quantifying the environmental impacts of vehicles. Although much literature is available addressing the environmental impacts of ELVs, its usability for the present calculation is limited for various reasons, including: 
 · the level of detail is not sufficient to extract relevant data; 
 · different functional units are applied; 
 · relevant input factors are not compatible to the scope of the present calculation; and/or 
 · results are given in aggregated parameters instead of individual impact categories. 
 A full range of environmental impacts is directly linked to the mass flows in the model. The total environmental impacts are proportional to the mass flows and are calculated via the model for the different policy options. The main environmental impact category that was evaluated via the model and addressed in the report is climate change (global warming potential GWP in kg CO2-eq.). 
 4.4.2 Environmental impact categories 
 A further 10 environmental impact categories can be called up via the model: 
 · Abiotic depletion potential of mineralic resources (ADP elem. in kg Sb eq.) 
 · Abiotic depletion of fossil fuels (ADP in MJ) 
 · Acidification (AP in kg SO2 eq.) 
 · Eutrophication potential (EP in kg PO 4 ---eq.) 
 · Fresh water aquatic ecotoxicity (FAET in kg 1,4-DB eq.) 
 · Human toxicity (in kg 1,4-DB eq.) 
 · Marine aquatic ecotoxicity (MAET in kg 1,4-DB eq.) 
 · Ozone layer depletion potential (ODP in kg CFC-11 eq.) 
 · Photochemical oxidation (POCP in kg C2H4 eq.) 
 · Terrestrial ecotoxicity (TET in kg 1,4-DB eq.) 
 The primary production of vehicles was calculated from the material composition of the vehicles with data for the primary production of these materials and the energy and material demand for the manufacturing of the vehicles. 
 The recycling was calculated from the energy and material demand for the recycling process and the refining of the recovered materials. Credits for the recovered materials were given for the avoided primary production. 
 The data for the primary production and the recycling was taken from the LCA database ecoinvent 3.8 and specific LCA studies and supplemented by information from the stakeholder surveys.   
 Detailed results of the calculations are presented for selected impact categories in the tables below. 
 Table 4.5 LCA data: Primary production of materials I 
 80 
 Impact category 
 Unit 
 Steel 
 Stainless Steel 
 Cast Iron 
 Wrought aluminium 
 Cast aluminium 
 Copper 
 Glass 
 Rubber 
 Carbon Fiber-Reinforced Plastic 
 Glass Fiber-Reinforced Plastic 
 PTFE 
 Silicon 
 Abiotic depletion 
 kg Sb eq 
 3.4E-05 
 1.6E-04 
 5.9E-06 
 1.9E-05 
 1.9E-05 
 2.4E-03 
 8.3E-06 
 4.9E-05 
 2.2E-04 
 3.5E-05 
 2.3E-04 
 2.5E-05 
 Abiotic depletion 
(fossil fuels) 
 MJ 
 1.9E+01 
 4.6E+01 
 1.8E+01 
 1.8E+02 
 1.8E+02 
 6.8E+01 
 1.0E+01 
 7.4E+01 
 8.9E+02 
 5.8E+01 
 1.3E+02 
 4.5E+01 
 Acidification 
 kg SO2 eq 
 7.3E-03 
 2.4E-02 
 6.3E-03 
 1.1E-01 
 1.1E-01 
 1.0E-01 
 8.4E-03 
 1.3E-02 
 4.0E-01 
 1.8E-02 
 5.5E-02 
 1.2E-02 
 Eutrophication 
 kg PO4--- eq 
 3.8E-03 
 7.6E-03 
 2.7E-03 
 2.7E-02 
 2.7E-02 
 3.8E-01 
 1.1E-03 
 3.8E-03 
 1.2E-01 
 5.7E-03 
 1.4E-02 
 4.0E-03 
 Fresh water aquatic ecotox. 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 6.0E+00 
 1.5E+01 
 1.4E+00 
 1.4E+01 
 1.4E+01 
 7.7E+02 
 2.5E-01 
 1.3E+00 
 3.6E+01 
 1.5E+00 
 7.8E+00 
 1.7E+00 
 Global warming (GWP100a) 
 kg CO2 eq 
 2.1E+00 
 4.4E+00 
 1.8E+00 
 1.9E+01 
 1.9E+01 
 6.5E+00 
 9.7E-01 
 2.7E+00 
 8.3E+01 
 3.9E+00 
 1.3E+02 
 2.9E+00 
 Human toxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 3.2E+00 
 7.7E+01 
 1.6E+00 
 1.2E+01 
 1.2E+01 
 1.2E+03 
 3.7E-01 
 1.8E+00 
 3.2E+01 
 4.7E+00 
 3.0E+01 
 1.6E+00 
 Marine aquatic ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 7.0E+03 
 1.7E+04 
 2.7E+03 
 5.6E+04 
 5.6E+04 
 8.7E+05 
 1.4E+03 
 2.9E+03 
 1.1E+05 
 4.4E+03 
 2.6E+05 
 7.4E+03 
 Ozone layer depletion (ODP) 
 kg CFC-11 eq 
 9.2E-08 
 1.9E-07 
 8.7E-08 
 5.8E-07 
 5.8E-07 
 4.0E-07 
 9.3E-08 
 5.3E-07 
 2.0E-06 
 3.5E-07 
 4.3E-03 
 1.9E-06 
 Photochemical oxidation 
 kg C2H4 eq 
 9.5E-04 
 1.1E-03 
 8.1E-04 
 6.7E-03 
 6.7E-03 
 2.0E-03 
 2.7E-04 
 7.0E-04 
 1.8E-02 
 1.1E-03 
 4.4E-03 
 7.1E-04 
 Terrestrial ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 2.3E-03 
 7.5E-02 
 6.6E-02 
 3.5E-02 
 3.5E-02 
 1.5E-01 
 6.6E-04 
 3.8E-03 
 2.5E-01 
 5.6E-03 
 2.0E-02 
 5.1E-03 
 Table 4.6 LCA data: Primary production of materials II 
 Impact category 
 Unit 
 ABS 
 Liquid Epoxy 
 GPPS 
 HIPS 
 HDPE 
 LDPE 
 LLDPE 
 Nylon 6 
 Nylon 66 
 PC 
 PET 
 PP 
 Abiotic depletion 
 kg Sb eq 
 2.8E-06 
 5.5E-05 
 4.4E-07 
 4.4E-07 
 1.4E-05 
 1.4E-05 
 1.5E-05 
 6.5E-05 
 3.0E-06 
 1.7E-06 
 3.7E-05 
 1.4E-05 
 Abiotic depletion (fossil fuels) 
 MJ 
 8.7E+01 
 8.0E+01 
 7.8E+01 
 7.8E+01 
 7.1E+01 
 7.3E+01 
 7.0E+01 
 1.0E+02 
 1.1E+02 
 9.2E+01 
 6.8E+01 
 7.3E+01 
 Acidification 
 kg SO2 eq 
 1.3E-02 
 1.7E-02 
 1.1E-02 
 1.2E-02 
 7.8E-03 
 8.7E-03 
 7.5E-03 
 3.0E-02 
 2.9E-02 
 2.5E-02 
 1.1E-02 
 7.6E-03 
 Eutrophication 
 kg PO4- eq 
 2.2E-03 
 6.9E-03 
 9.4E-04 
 9.9E-04 
 2.0E-03 
 2.6E-03 
 2.0E-03 
 6.8E-03 
 7.7E-03 
 2.5E-03 
 3.1E-03 
 1.9E-03 
 Fresh water aquatic ecotox. 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 4.7E-01 
 3.6E+00 
 6.8E-01 
 6.7E-01 
 6.3E-01 
 7.5E-01 
 6.4E-01 
 3.0E-01 
 2.5E-01 
 2.2E-01 
 1.2E+00 
 6.1E-01 
 Global warming (GWP100a) 
 kg CO2 eq 
 4.5E+00 
 4.6E+00 
 3.6E+00 
 3.6E+00 
 2.3E+00 
 2.5E+00 
 2.2E+00 
 9.1E+00 
 8.1E+00 
 8.1E+00 
 3.1E+00 
 2.3E+00 
 Human toxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 4.1E-01 
 8.0E+00 
 3.5E-01 
 3.8E-01 
 8.4E-01 
 9.4E-01 
 9.8E-01 
 4.6E-01 
 4.2E-01 
 4.2E-01 
 2.1E+00 
 7.9E-01 
 Marine aquatic ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 1.6E+03 
 4.7E+03 
 3.7E+03 
 3.6E+03 
 1.5E+03 
 1.9E+03 
 1.4E+03 
 1.4E+03 
 1.1E+03 
 9.0E+02 
 2.7E+03 
 1.4E+03 
 Ozone layer depletion (ODP) 
 kg CFC-11 eq 
 7.5E-08 
 6.5E-07 
 2.9E-09 
 3.4E-09 
 5.2E-08 
 4.7E-08 
 6.0E-08 
 1.2E-08 
 7.4E-09 
 1.7E-08 
 1.0E-05 
 3.9E-08 
 Photochemical oxidation 
 kg C2H4 eq 
 7.5E-04 
 2.3E-03 
 7.5E-04 
 7.3E-04 
 6.8E-04 
 1.4E-03 
 5.6E-04 
 1.4E-03 
 1.4E-03 
 1.4E-03 
 6.8E-04 
 4.4E-04 
 Terrestrial ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 1.3E-03 
 6.4E-03 
 5.4E-04 
 6.7E-04 
 1.5E-03 
 2.1E-03 
 1.5E-03 
 9.6E-04 
 7.0E-04 
 2.7E-02 
 4.0E-03 
 1.3E-03 
 Table 4.7 LCA data: Primary production of materials III 
 Impact category 
 Unit 
 PUR Flexible Foam 
 PUR Rigid Foam 
 PVC 
 Zinc 
 Magnesium 
 Nickel 
 Platinum 
 Gold 
 Silver 
 Tin 
 Brass 
 Palladium 
 Abiotic depletion 
 kg Sb eq 
 1.4E-05 
 6.8E-05 
 3.7E-05 
 1.5E-03 
 5.2E-05 
 2.2E-03 
 3.6E+00 
 6.1E+01 
 8.5E-01 
 2.7E-02 
 9.4E-03 
 8.9E-01 
 Abiotic depletion (fossil fuels) 
 MJ 
 8.2E+01 
 9.8E+01 
 5.0E+01 
 3.1E+01 
 1.1E+03 
 2.3E+02 
 1.0E+06 
 5.7E+05 
 5.8E+03 
 1.2E+02 
 8.0E+01 
 1.9E+05 
 Acidification 
 kg SO2 eq 
 2.2E-02 
 2.6E-02 
 8.9E-03 
 2.2E-02 
 2.3E-01 
 1.8E+00 
 4.1E+03 
 3.8E+02 
 4.9E+00 
 9.8E-02 
 3.4E-01 
 2.0E+03 
 Eutrophication 
 kg PO4- eq 
 5.5E-03 
 1.1E-02 
 3.2E-03 
 1.3E-02 
 1.6E-01 
 6.4E-02 
 4.5E+02 
 5.8E+02 
 4.8E+00 
 9.1E-02 
 1.1E-01 
 6.9E+01 
 Fresh water aquatic ecotox. 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 1.5E+00 
 3.0E+00 
 1.3E+00 
 1.2E+01 
 2.9E+01 
 1.6E+02 
 2.8E+05 
 7.5E+05 
 5.6E+03 
 8.1E+01 
 1.9E+02 
 5.0E+04 
 Global warming (GWP100a) 
 kg CO2 eq 
 5.2E+00 
 5.0E+00 
 2.4E+00 
 2.7E+00 
 4.5E+01 
 1.8E+01 
 6.9E+04 
 4.9E+04 
 5.0E+02 
 1.0E+01 
 6.6E+00 
 1.3E+04 
 Human toxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 9.7E-01 
 4.2E+00 
 1.8E+00 
 1.1E+01 
 8.3E+01 
 1.2E+02 
 2.3E+05 
 6.7E+05 
 4.9E+03 
 6.8E+01 
 3.4E+02 
 3.9E+04 
 Marine aquatic ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 6.6E+03 
 7.1E+03 
 2.8E+03 
 3.6E+04 
 6.6E+04 
 1.5E+05 
 3.9E+08 
 1.2E+09 
 7.3E+06 
 9.2E+04 
 2.3E+05 
 6.6E+07 
 Ozone layer depletion (ODP) 
 kg CFC-11 eq 
 2.6E-08 
 8.2E-07 
 1.1E-06 
 1.7E-07 
 5.9E-06 
 1.7E-06 
 3.3E-03 
 2.9E-03 
 5.2E-05 
 5.8E-07 
 9.8E-07 
 3.0E-03 
 Photochemical oxidation 
 kg C2H4 eq 
 1.0E-03 
 4.9E-03 
 5.0E-04 
 7.1E-04 
 3.4E-02 
 8.5E-02 
 1.4E+02 
 1.2E+01 
 1.6E-01 
 2.9E-03 
 1.3E-02 
 7.9E+01 
 Terrestrial ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 5.5E-03 
 1.4E-02 
 3.8E-03 
 1.8E-02 
 4.1E-02 
 3.1E-01 
 2.5E+02 
 9.7E+02 
 3.8E+00 
 7.4E-02 
 2.2E-01 
 4.6E+01 
 Table 4.842 LCA data: Secondary production of materials 
 Impact category 
 Unit 
 Steel 
 Aluminium wrought alloy 
 Aluminium cast alloy 
 Glass 
 HDPE 
 PET 
 Platinum 
 Abiotic depletion 
 kg Sb eq 
 1.1E-05 
 1.9E-04 
 7.5E-05 
 4.2E-08 
 7.0E-06 
 6.1E-06 
 7.2E-01 
 Abiotic depletion (fossil fuels) 
 MJ 
 6.6E+00 
 3.6E+01 
 6.4E+01 
 1.6E-01 
 4.7E+00 
 8.0E+00 
 2.0E+05 
 Acidification 
 kg SO2 eq 
 2.6E-03 
 1.6E-02 
 3.0E-02 
 3.5E-05 
 1.9E-03 
 2.5E-03 
 1.5E+02 
 Eutrophication 
 kg PO4--- eq 
 1.6E-03 
 7.2E-03 
 8.4E-03 
 5.8E-05 
 4.1E-03 
 2.3E-03 
 4.1E+01 
 Fresh water aquatic ecotox. 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 1.9E+00 
 5.0E+00 
 3.3E+00 
 1.1E-02 
 2.1E+00 
 8.1E+00 
 9.4E+04 
 Global warming (GWP100a) 
 kg CO2 eq 
 6.4E-01 
 3.5E+00 
 4.2E+00 
 1.4E-02 
 4.9E-01 
 8.2E-01 
 1.8E+04 
 Human toxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 1.5E+00 
 4.3E+00 
 3.7E+00 
 7.5E-03 
 1.4E+00 
 1.6E+00 
 8.4E+04 
 Marine aquatic ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 2.3E+03 
 1.1E+04 
 6.0E+03 
 2.4E+01 
 9.5E+03 
 4.2E+04 
 6.4E+07 
 Ozone layer depletion (ODP) 
 kg CFC-11 eq 
 4.8E-08 
 1.7E-07 
 2.1E-06 
 1.2E-09 
 3.7E-08 
 6.6E-08 
 1.6E-03 
 Photochemical oxidation 
 kg C2H4 eq 
 1.4E-04 
 2.8E-03 
 1.4E-03 
 1.4E-06 
 1.2E-04 
 1.5E-04 
 8.8E+00 
 Terrestrial ecotoxicity 
 kg 1,4-DB eq 
 2.3E-03 
 2.1E-02 
 5.6E-02 
 3.4E-05 
 1.2E-02 
 4.9E-03 
 6.6E+01 
 4.4.3 Data for the modelling of environmental impact from coolants 
 According to the EU ELV rules, ELV must be depolluted and inter alia the coolants for air conditioning must be separated to avoid that the coolant is discharged to the air. As the coolants are very volatile, this requires special extraction systems. If only a limited number of vehicles is depolluted it is economically not viable to invest in such extraction systems. A German study assessed the potential impact and concluded that the coolant R12 (with a GWP100 of 10.890 CO2eq), which was phased out the latest 1995, are not relevant anymore. However, the coolant R134a (phased out the latest in 2017) is relevant 77 . 
 1) Global warming potential (GWP-100) of the air conditioning cooling agent R134a: 1,430 kg CO2eq 
 2) Average filling of a vehicle with R134a at the end-of-life: 0.6 kg per vehicle 
 3) Vehicles placed on the market and share of new vehicles equipped with R134a. 
 81 
 The time series ends in 2021 as the application of R134a is phased out. 
 Table 4.942 GWP impacts of air conditioning coolant removal 
 total,M1,+,N1,PoM 
 Share,R134a 
 1991 
 12,591,233 
 25.7% 
 1992 
 12,701,341 
 25.7% 
 1993 
 10,061,079 
 25.7% 
 1994 
 10,632,622 
 31.7% 
 1995 
 10,687,789 
 37.8% 
 1996 
 11,401,688 
 43.9% 
 1997 
 11,908,142 
 50.0% 
 1998 
 12,852,409 
 56.1% 
 1999 
 13,667,723 
 62.2% 
 2000 
 13,296,470 
 68.3% 
 2001 
 13,126,889 
 74.3% 
 2002 
 12,578,688 
 80.4% 
 2003 
 13,337,197 
 86.5% 
 2004 
 13,613,138 
 92.6% 
 2005 
 13,652,647 
 94.2% 
 2006 
 14,374,710 
 95.7% 
 2007 
 14,474,905 
 95.8% 
 2008 
 13,409,195 
 95.9% 
 2009 
 13,368,260 
 96.0% 
 2010 
 12,667,065 
 96.1% 
 2011 
 12,651,986 
 96.6% 
 2012 
 12,636,906 
 97.0% 
 2013 
 12,621,827 
 93.7% 
 2014 
 12,606,748 
 90.4% 
 2015 
 12,591,668 
 66.3% 
 2016 
 12,283,340 
 42.1% 
 2017 
 11,975,012 
 22.9% 
 2018 
 11,666,683 
 3.6% 
 2019 
 11,358,355 
 2.3% 
 2020 
 11,050,026 
 0.0% 
 2021 
 11,791,238 
 0.0% 
 4) Weibull parameters for the lifetime of a vehicle (same as for the other model calculations) 
 Figure 4.6 Lifetime distribution of vehicles 
 5) Loss rate for the different destinations of the vehicle 
 As addressed in other sections (on “missing vehicles”) we distinguish different locations where the vehicles become an end-of-life vehicle. We distinguish the following cases: 
 With 
 A) 
 ELVs directed to ATFs and subsequently to shredders and reported by ATFs and MS 
 B) 
 ELVs directed to ATFs and subsequently to shredders but not reported 
 C) 
 ELVs directed to intra-EU non-ATFs and subsequently to shredders, not reported 
 D) 
 Used Vehicles exported (extra EU) and reported accordingly 
 E) 
 Used Vehicles exported (extra EU) but not reported 
 F) 
 ELVs exported (extra EU), not reported 
 As outlined in the German report mentioned earlier 77 it is expected that a certain proportion of the coolant from the air-conditioning system of ELVs is not extracted in accordance with the regulations but is released uncontrolled to the air. 
 Transposing these assumptions to the 6 categories above, we consider for the calculation of the impact that the following share of coolant is not extracted in accordance with the regulations but is released uncontrolled to the air (=loss rate) 
 Destination where vehicles become ELVs and their loss rate 
 (A) 
 ELVs directed to ATFs: 10% 
 (B) 
 ELVs directed to ATFs but not reported: 70% 
 (C) 
 ELVs directed to intra-EU non-ATFs 
 : 70% 
 (D), (E) and (F): extra EU export: 100% 
 6) The above-mentioned data / assumptions are finally combined with the total numbers of ELVs directed to the 6 different destinations as calculated for the different scenarios under “missing vehicles”. 
 4.5 Modelling the economic impacts 
 4.5.1 Main indicators 
 The main indicators used for the modelling of the economic impacts are the following: 
 For the economic impacts on ATFs the following aspects are of relevance under the current depollution and dismantling requirements: 
 · revenues of components and spare parts removed by Authorised Treatment Facilities (ATFs) for re-use or recycling, 
 · revenues for recyclates and the remaining hulk of ELVs sent by ATFs to shredders, 
 · costs for management of ELVs including the (current) obligatory depollution and dismantling management, 
 · cost for ATFs to buy ELVs 
 These aspects are assessed in detail in a German report, published in 2022 
 82 
 . For the EU Impact assessment, the IA support study of the Oeko-Institut did not refer to the separated cost and revenues but refers to the aggregated profit of 200 € per each ELV treated at ATFs. As the sources refer to the conditions in Germany, the situation might differ in other EU Member States. However, the mentioned profit is, in absence of other data, considered for the entire EU. As the size of the ATFs is very diverse no impacts of “economies of scale” are considered. 
 The IA support study of the Oeko-Institut further assumed that the profits of exporting used vehicles are higher compared to the profits from ELV treatment. In absence of qualified sources an estimated profit for the exporter of 400 € per exported used vehicle is considered. 
 Regards the economic impacts for shredders the IA support study of Oeko-Institut considers a profit 20 € per ton additional ELVs directed to shredders in the EU, with the assumption that a depolluted and dismantled ELV has a weight of 700 kg. 
 The dismantling of Batteries from EV falls under the obligation of ATFs and is regulated under the ELV legislation and not under the Battery Regulation 
 83 
 . Considering that each of the 12,000 ATFs will sooner or later need training in handling of high-voltage batteries, such training, including missed work time, easily costs each ATFs more than €5,000, which would add up to € 60 million for the entire EU. Considering that such training needs to be completed in a period of 5 years and taking into account 63 million new passenger cars registered in the previous 5-year period (2017 – 2021) this would account for around 1 € per each new vehicle in that period. Other trainings e.g. regards the separation / dismantling of additional parts is not considered in the economic impact assessment, 
 The economic impacts from the more extensive dismantling and separation are built upon analysis of economic impacts for various materials: steel, copper, aluminium (cast and wrought), glass, plastics, and electric and electronic components (EEC). The analysed economic impacts in Oeko-Institut’s IA support study considered inter alia the following parameters: 
 4.5.2 Revenues for spare parts removed by ATFs for reuse or separate recycling; 
 · Revenues for recyclates (shredders/PSTs, and recyclers); 
 · Dismantling costs (labour cost) for additional manual dismantling; 
 · Investment costs by all relevant economic actors (except for plastics, qualitative analysis). 
 The economic impacts were analysed qualitatively and quantitatively. The following table provides an overview of the quantitative analysis of economic impacts that was performed for each material in Oeko-Institut’s IA support study. 
 Table 4.10 Economic impact categories 
 Impact category 
 Material 
 Steel, Copper, Aluminium 
 Glass 
 Plastic 
 EEC 
 Change in revenues (decrease or increase) for recyclates 
 ATFs 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x (also for reuse sales) 
 Shredder/PSTs 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 Recyclers 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 Dismantling costs (labour costs) at ATFs 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 x 
 Operating costs at shredder/PSTs 
 x 
 Compounding costs at recyclers 
 x 
 Investment costs 
 x 
 All quantitative analysis were done for baseline and further scenarios developed for each material separately. These scenarios considered different routes of treatment of materials as well as shares (in %) of total material stream. All considered routes of treatment were: 
 · In components for reuse/remanufacturing 
 · Recycled material of potentially higher-quality (directly recycled, no shredding) 
 · Dismantled --> shredded --> recycled (not relevant for copper, plastics, and EEC) 
 · Shredded --> recycled (no dismantling) (not relevant for cast aluminium) 
 · Recovery (backfilling in case of glass and energy recovery in case of aluminium, or for plastics and EEC either backfilling or energy recovery) 
 · Recycled removed copper from steel scrap (relevant only for copper) 
 · Losses/process inefficiencies 
 For the analysis at hand, the model developed for this study specifies the tonnage of each analysed material that will be contained in ELVs to be collected in years: 2025, 2030, 2035, and 2040. These calculations also consider a weight of each material per vehicle depending on the type of vehicle. Based on above calculations and the assumed shares for each route of treatment for material, the tonnage of analysed material treated in different routes for each scenario/policy option was calculated. 
 The calculations of revenues for ATFs, shredders/PSTs, and recyclers considered the tonnage of analysed material treated in different routes for each scenario multiplied by the unit price of the analysed material. For aluminium and glass, different unit prices based on the recyclate quality were used in the calculations. In the qualitative analysis of Oeko-Institut’s IA support study, it was noted that increased quality of recyclates resulted in a unit price increase. Obtained results, which can be found in the Final Report, refer to a baseline scenario and express the difference of revenues compared to the baseline scenario. Below is a table that contains all assumed unit prices for recyclates of the analysed materials. 
 Table 4.11 Economic impacts, price of recyclates and reusable parts 
 Material 
 Unit prices (in Euro/tonne) 
 Recyclates 
 Reuse sales 
 Steel 
 187.08 
 84 
 Copper 
 6,286 79 
 Aluminium 
 Cast 
 967.39 79 
 Wrought 
 1,160.87 
 85 
 Glass 
 For ATFs 
 10.00 
 86 
 For shredder/PSTs 
 10.40 
 87 
 1,50 
 88 
 For recyclers 
 18.32 
 89 
 Plastics 
 400.00 93 
 Inverter (EEC) 
 10.35 
 90 
 12.20 86 
 The calculation of dismantling costs 
 91 
 for steel, copper, aluminium, and EEC was based on time required for dismantling of selected parts and the costs of an hour work or unit. As already stressed above, the model developed for the Oeko-Institut’s IA support study, specifies the amount of ELVs to be collected in years: 2025, 2030, 2035, and 2040. Based on these values and the assumed shares for each route of treatment for material, the number of dismantled parts for each scenario/policy option was calculated. For steel, aluminium, and copper, to calculate dismantling costs, removal of an engine was considered 
 92 
 . Additionally for copper, the removal of cables was calculated 
 93 
 . For the analysis of these costs for EEC the removal of inverter was considered. 
 The calculation of dismantling costs for plastics and glass based on the total mass of these materials in ELVs collected in years: 2025, 2030, 2035, and 2040. 
 The following tables contains unit costs for dismantling (labour costs at ATFs) as well as additional unit costs at shredder/PSTs and recyclers. 
 Table 4.12 Dismantling costs 
 Route of treatment 
 Material (various units) 
 Steel, Copper, Aluminium (€/hour) 
 Glass (€/ tonne) 
 Plastic (€/ tonne) 
 EEC 
(€/ unit) 
 Dismantling costs at ATFs 
 51,00 
 94 
 223,00 
 95 
 49,00 
 96 
 80,00 
 97 
 2,20 85 
 Operating costs at shredder/PSTs 
 110,00 93 
 Compounding costs at recyclers 
 300,00 85 
 4.6 Modelling the social impacts 
 Regards the employment the following indicators are applied: 
 · 1.5 FTE per 1000 additional ELVs treated at ATFs (at current dismantling conditions) 
 · Additional job positions calculated for ATFs for increased dismantling of parts and components (for enhanced dismantling and separation at ATFs). 
 · The calculations of additional jobs for ATFs considered additional number of parts removed from an ATFs prior shredding assumed for each scenario/policy option. For instance, the calculations for steel, aluminium, and copper scenarios/policy options were based on the removal of engines and time required to remove them. 
 · Additional job positions calculated for recyclers to operate new machines required by shredder/PST (for enhanced separation at recyclers). 
 Employees will be needed for the operation of new machines in shredder/PST and additional employees for hand picking/sorting in shredder facility. In Europe there are about 300 shredders/PST. It is expected that relevant investments would be done by facilities from middle up to big size, thus not in all existing facilities. There is no precise data on shredder/PST and also if shredders have a PST in house, therefore rough assumptions are done: 60% of existing plants are middle or bigger size, for the new technological solutions there will be need for 2 employees that could operate new machines. It would mean that for scenarios/policy option, in which investment in new technologies are planned, would be required in total to hire additional 360 employees. 
 4.7 Methodological approach for recycled content plastics 
 The analysis is based on the JRC plastics recycled content study 
 98 
 . The main scenarios included in the study are displayed in Table 4.13. 
 Table 4.13: Main scenarios evaluated for proposed targets for minimum recycled plastics content in new vehicles sold (Options 3 series) compared to newly type approved (Option 4 series) of the JRC study 
 99 
 . 
 All new vehicles sold (M1) 
 Newly type approved vehicles (N1 and M1 
 Application date 
 JRC3a 
 JRC3b 
 JRC3c 
 JRC4b 
 JRC4c 
 2030 
 6% 
 15% 
 25% 
 25% 
 30% 
 2035 
 10% 
 20% 
 30% 
 25% 
 30% 
 4.7.1 Literature review 
 Literature research is first performed to compile relevant secondary data dealing with the use of plastics in vehicles, the structure of the value chain of virgin and recycled plastics, as well as on the quantitative ( i.e. mass) and qualitative ( i.e. polymer types) properties of the material flows within. 
 Hence, general statistics proposed by the professional associations such as PlasticsEurope or ACEA are analysed, providing a first overview of the characteristics of plastics materials embedded in cars. In addition, technical or impact assessment studies funded by the European commission or professional associations and related to the ELV directive are also analysed because of the direct link with the scope of the present work. This is also the case of “position papers” released by professional organisations to present their views on revision of the ELV directive or EU plastics strategy. In addition, more generic scientific literature such as peer-reviewed scientific articles and specialized website pages are also consulted to complement the data previously collected when needed. 
 The Circular Plastics Alliance (CPA) deliverables 
 100 
 are also providing valuable inputs to understand the current state of play and untapped potential of recycled plastics uptake, offering a specific focus on the automotive sector via its dedicated working group. The following available reports were careful analysed and used to enrich the knowledge and datasets gathered: 
 I. CPA, 2020. Work plan on state of play collection and sorting - Automotive working group. (CPA, 2020) 
 II. CPA, 2021. Guidance on Waste Definitions. (CPA, 2021a) 
 III. CPA, 2021. Roadmap to 10 Mt recycled content by 2025, untapped potential report (CPA, 2021b) 
 IV. CPA, 2021. Work plan on recycled content - Automotive WG (draft version). (CPA, 2021c) 
 V. CPA, 2022. Supporting greater uptake of recycled plastics in Europe: Circular Plastics Alliance’s assessment of the legal, economic and technical requirements and solutions. (CPA, 2022) 
 However, it should be noted that the CPA pursues a different goal compared to the current work carried out in the frame of the revision of the ELV directive. Indeed, CPA initiative is based on industry voluntary pledges within various sectors to reach 10 million tonnes of recycled plastics in 2025, which correspond to a short-term development. Hence, the CPA outcomes offer technical elements to feed the current reflection on the feasibility and ambition level of potential recycled content target for plastics materials within revision of the ELV directive. In other words, CPA results constitute a first step, but are not sufficient to anticipate what could be the situation in the current decade and beyond dealing with both (i) plastics demand for automotive manufacturing and (ii) ELV and plastic waste treatment operations and recycling processes. Therefore, the goal of the current study is to provide robust insights about which quantity of recycled plastic materials is suitable to integrate in new cars. Such uptake is regulated thanks to recycled plastic content target policy measure. The evaluation of the uptake potential of recycled plastic by the automotive value chain is performed through supply-demand balance, life cycle-based methodology and an economic assessment. 
 4.7.2 Selected approach for stakeholders’ targeted consultations 
 One important objective of the present study is to consolidate data and knowledge regarding production and integration of high-quality recycled plastics in new vehicles. For such purpose, it is proposed to enrich data collected in the literature or through the CPA initiative by contacting several experts and key industrial players in the field, following the approach initially presented in Mathieux and Brissaud (2010). This experts’ elicitation process allows to reach a finer understanding of stakeholders’ interactions within this industrial ecosystem as well as to gather their views on the current and future practices dealing with recycled plastics uptake in the sector. This consultation appears as an important step when assessing the feasibility to set recycled content targets (and associated threshold values) for plastics in new vehicles, by getting first hand feedback also from front-runners. 
 Consequently, the present study proposes to collect primary data through semi-structured interviews with relevant stakeholders along the value chain described below (see §2.3 of the JRC study). It includes some selected vehicle manufacturers (OEMs), parts and components direct suppliers of the automotive manufacturers (Tier 1), plastics compounders and recyclers which supply the primary and secondary plastics raw materials (Tier 3 suppliers). Independent experts and industrial sector associations are also covered in the scope of the consultation. 
 The goal of such consultation is to understand the industrial state of play dealing with plastic recycling in the automotive sector and gain knowledge regarding both qualitative and quantitative data (facts and figures) from a wide panel of stakeholders who may have contradicting views on this topic. 
 4.7.3 Identification of relevant stakeholders (front-runners and professional associations) 
 The author team developed interview-guide material for each category of stakeholder (see 
 Annex 1 of the JRC study. Questionnaires sent to stakeholders during the targeted consultation 
 ). This written document includes a written list of questions related to the value chain, the quantitative and qualitative features of its material flows, the drivers and barriers, as well a preliminary sketch of the value chain based on the literature sources. 
 First, we focused our consultation on companies identified as front-runners , i.e. companies previously involved in large-scale research projects and/or having already announced ambitious public commitments in the field of plastic recycling / use of recycled plastics (see section §2.2.2 of the JRC study). This recognised front-runner position in the field allows to anticipate what could be the situation of the overall sector in the near future (between 5 and 7 years). For such stakeholders, two hours of bilateral guided discussions are carried out including also validation of some assumptions and forecasts made for the system under study. 
 Going further, broader consultations, i.e. participatory interactive workshops, were organized with the relevant industry associations and a panel of their members to capture a representative state of play of the sector regarding the integration of recycled plastics in vehicles. In other words, the exercise allows to understand the average position of a sector and its degree of preparedness to anticipate a potential change in the legislation. It is also seen as an appropriate way to collect consensual views on the current practices and “averaged” quantitative data which can be used to design a baseline scenario . 
 These workshops were organised during 2.5-3 hours. First, it is proposed a presentation by the JRC team about the current context, the goal and scope of the present study and the expectations in term of qualitative and quantitative inputs to be collected during this consultation (or for potential sensitive topics during follow-up discussions). Then, the representative of the association and some volunteers within the panel present their positions on the following topics followed by an open discussion with the JRC. 
 I. Current practices regarding recycled plastic integration (quantity/type of polymers etc.) and outlook (2025? 2030?) 
 II. What make further integration of pre/post recycled plastics challenging? (e.g. qualification process for plastic parts; sourcing, lead times, and technical constraints) 
 III. Reliable audit/traceability scheme (e.g. potential contribution of IMDS, close loop in automotive or intersectoral exchange, EU/non-EU sourcing) 
 Each session lasts around 40 minutes with a good balance between presentations and discussions involving members of the panel, association and JRC teams. The workshop ends by a wrap-up and follow-up session managed by both the representative of the association and the JRC team. 
 4.7.4 Interviews state-of-play 
 During the study timeline, we interviewed a number of representative stakeholders during at least a 2h session of semi-structured interviews or during half day sectoral workshops with professional associations. Several follow-up discussions, data collection and validation took place with some stakeholders. The list of typical questions sent beforehand to the stakeholders are detailed in Annex 1. The distribution per type of stakeholders is also presented in 
 Figure 3 
 . Despite the pandemic conditions, the study also benefited from the visit/analysis of an ELV plastic recycling plant. 
 Figure 4.7: Distribution of the selected stakeholders for bilateral discussions 
 4.7.5 Adaptation for plastics recycling content to fit within the type-approval framework 
 After the initial JRC study focusing on the entire fleet of vehicles placed on the market, the importance of integrating the recycled content target within the EU type approval (TA) legislative framework was highlighted. Because the TA procedure addresses environmental properties of the vehicles placed on the EU market, and because it already addressed circularity aspects through the recyclability, reusability and recoverability provisions (Directive 2005/64/EC), it is likely to be an appropriate and effective instrument to implement the recycled plastics targets provisions. Therefore, additional scenarios were added to base the target solely on newly type-approved vehicles from a certain data and then while more and more type approvals are granted more steadily increase the uptake of plastics recycled content in new vehicles production. The resulting additional scenarios are displayed in Table 4.14. 
 The chapter 5 of the JRC report describes the policy options proposed to increase recycled plastics uptake in new vehicles. These options series 1, 2 and 3 are developed at vehicle level, in line with the description of the criteria ⑥ described in chapter 5 (scope of application for the potential targets). As showed in Annex 8.1.2, the environmental and recyclability provisions of the TA apply to passenger cars (M1 category), and light commercial vehicles (N1 category). Consequently, the N1 category is additionally included in the scope of the analysis and this will modify the amount of recycled plastics demand (demand side) as well as the amount of ELV to be collected and treated in ATF (production side of ELV plastic recyclates). The policy options thus apply to an updated fleet model of newly registered vehicles gathering N1 and M1 categories, presenting a new dynamic regarding the penetration of BEV within the fleet of newly registered vehicles and also providing an increased amount of ELV to be collected per year. 
 Besides, the harmonisation of the potential recycled content targets with TA procedure implies an important change in the modelling of the recycled plastics demand. In Chapter 5 of the JRC study, the target compliance is applied to all new vehicles sold at a given year. The use of the type approval legislation for recycled content targets (i.e., making the target applicable to new vehicle types brought into the EU market after a certain date) delays the compliance of a certain share of the newly registered vehicles fleet. Indeed, it is estimated that a period of 6 to 7 years is on average needed to renew or launch a new type approval for which the compliance with environmental provision should be proven only after the application date of the measure. This should postpone by several years the demand in term of plastic recyclates, while allowing more flexibility to car manufacturers to align with the provisions. 
 4.7.6 Material & Methods 
 This section highlights how the additional option 4 series are impact assessed, focusing on materials flow modelling (and associated supply/demand balance of recycled plastics) that is largely updated. It further compiles estimates regarding environmental and economic impacts, through an adaptation of the modelling of chapter 5 of the JRC study 
 a) Identification of relevant new targets thresholds considering the Type approval instrument 
 In line with what has been developed in section §5.1.3, new thresholds are defined for the year 2030. The application date of the target for 2030 implies that all new types approved vehicles in 2030 and beyond will need to comply with a minimum recycled plastics content. Analysis of recent records show that the type -approval procedure is usually distributed over a certain period (typically 6 years per type on average), that will delay the full compliance of the newly registered fleet. It has been decided to keep a unique mandatory threshold for the first application year, i.e., from 2030 onward. To do so, the options, numerated “Opt.4” keeps similar levels (a,b,c) of recycled plastics compared to the options 3 previously defined for ‘All new vehicles sold’ fleet (see 
 Table A5.1 
 ). This approach allows greater flexibility for manufacturers to perform their product planning, while maintaining a comparable level of overall ambition in the long run (e.g., in 2035). The date of introduction of the first target (2030) allows sufficient lead time for vehicle type developments. 
 In absolute value, Option 4.b (TA2030 - 25%) represents an intermediate case compared to previous 3.b and 3.c options in term of demand for recycled plastics while option 4.c (TA2030 - 30%) corresponds to the previous option 3.c in 2035. 
 b) Definition of archetypes and fleet renewal dynamics 
 The features of the TA procedure and the time needed to generalise provisions should be captured in the growth of recycled plastics content within the fleet of newly registered vehicles. An annual growth rate is applied to the reference value for the year 2022, i.e., 2.5% recycled plastic content in vehicles. The average lifetime of a TA for M1 and N1 type is assumed to be 6 calendar years , meaning that, if the target is introduced in 2030, a vast majority of newly registered vehicles will comply with “option 4” target only by 2035. 
 To capture the diversity of situations among the OEMs, already described in section 4.2 of the JRC study, seven archetypes have been defined according to the time that each car manufacturer will take to fulfill the targets (each one with a given annual growth rate). For each year, the average recycled plastics content for new vehicles registered is computed. 
 Among the archetypes, a normal distribution is applied to characterise the dynamics of the fleet regarding the compliance with the target. This baseline scenario represents the case where most of the manufacturers act following the archetypes 3 and 4 (each one representing 34% of the fleet of newly registered vehicles). Front-runners ( archetypes 1 and 2 ) represent 16% of the fleet while the remaining 16% covers less advanced manufacturers ( archetypes 5 and 6 ). The considered distribution among archetypes is depicted in 
 Figure A5.1 
 for baseline, early adoption and late adoption scenarios in the JRC study. 
 Based on these scenarios modelling, weighted averages for baseline, early and late adoption (with weight being the share of each archetype) are then calculated to obtain S-curves representing the average recycled plastics content of newly registered vehicles for each TA policy option (4.a, 4.b., 4.c.). The results are presented in section §A5.3.a) of the JRC study. 
 c) Application to an extended fleet model including passenger cars (M1) and light commercial vehicles (N1) 
 In the main body of the JRC study, the fleet model used to forecast annual newly registered vehicles focuses exclusively on the M1 category, i.e., passenger cars. Since the TA and the ELV directives also cover the light commercial vehicles, the N1 category is included in the scope of the assessment of this annex. This represents a notable change in terms of vehicles covered with an increase by ca. 5% of the number of vehicles included in the scope. With an average weight of 1800 kg out of which the share of plastics is 13%, an average amount of plastics of 234 kg per each N1 vehicle is assumed. The total mass of plastics per vehicles for other categories remains the same: 208 kg for ICEV and hybrid, 204 kg for BEV. 
 In addition, the share of the zero emission vehicles within the fleet is updated to reach 100% of the vehicles sold in 2035. This is in line with the new ‘zero emission vehicles’ policy objective agreed under the EU ‘Fit for 55’ legislative framework. 
 101 
 To estimate the quantity of recycled plastics demand in the EU, the number of vehicles manufactured in the EU (not the number of newly vehicles sold) should be considered. We estimated that 30% of the sales come from vehicles manufactured outside the EU (and thus does not enter in the EU plastics demand calculations) while 46% of the vehicles manufactured in the EU are exported. 
 102 
 Based on these figures and the expected number of sales in the coming years, a system of equations is set up to forecast the total number of EU vehicles manufactured each year until 2035. It is found that the amount of manufactured vehicles equals 1.3 times the number of vehicles sold in the EU annually, i.e., 19.3 million in 2030 and 19.5 million in 2035 (vs. 14.9 and 15.0 millions of EU sales respectively). 
 Finally, the forecast for the ELV collection number is updated to be aligned with the baseline of the impact assessment of the ELVD revision. This baseline proposes a total ELV collection of 9.6 million in 2035. A linear regression is applied to link this number with the current amount of collected ELV, estimated to be 7.08 million. The estimated production of recycled plastics coming from ELV sources is then computed by multiplying the amount of ELV with the plastic recycling rate after dismantling, similarly to the calculations presented in section 5.2.1 and Figure 19. Three recycling rates are applied to estimate the quantity of ELV recycled plastics produced, i.e., 18%; 26%; and 35% corresponding respectively to: (i) the average scenario (AES), (ii) the front-runner's scenario (FRS), both already used in section §3.3.1 of the JRC study and (iii) the case where a 35% mandatory recycling rate is applied after dismantling. 
 4.8 Methodological approach for recycled content steel 
 The analysis of impacts of setting a steel recycled content builds on the Oeko-Institut impact assessment support study 
 103 
 related to problem definition and drivers, technical constraints in the recycling of steel and the types, numbers and compositions of vehicles in the EU fleet. This work is complemented with analysis of the economic and environmental impacts when more post-consumer scrap would be included into new vehicle production. 
 For this, the following main modelling assumptions and data sources of Table 4.15 apply. 
 Table 4.14 Modelling assumptions and sources 
 Parameter 
 Value 
 Source 
 Steel weight% in new vehicles 
 56% 
 - Baron, Y.; Kosińska-Terrade, I.; Loew, C.; Köhler, A.; Moch, K.; Sutter, J.; Graulich, K.; Adjei, F.; Mehlhart, G.: Study to support the impact assessment for the review of Directive 2000/53/EC on End-of-Life Vehicles by Oeko-Institut, June 2023 
 - Driving down the impurity levels: See Slide 13, ELV dismantled+shredder to 0.10% - Arcelor Mittal - IARC 5.07.2022 Scrap for Decarbonized Steels presentations 
 - JRC Raw Materials Information System: https://rmis.jrc.ec.europa.eu/apps/veh/#/v/components 
 Share of long products in ELV steel 
 21% 
 - Driving down the impurity levels: See Slide 13, ELV dismantled+shredder to 0.10% - Arcelor Mittal - IARC 5.07.2022 Scrap for Decarbonized Steels presentations 
 - RMIS - Raw Materials in Vehicles (europa.eu) 
 Average weight new vehicle 
 1.4 
 - Driving down the impurity levels: See Slide 13, ELV dismantled+shredder to 0.10% - Arcelor Mittal - IARC 5.07.2022 Scrap for Decarbonized Steels presentations 
 1 ton of crude long steel requires 
 1.10 
 per ton of ELV scrap 
 1 ton of crude flat steel requires 
 1.07 
 per ton of ELV scrap 
 The GHG savings are estimated per ton of high-quality scrap utilised better by taking the difference between the impacts per ton of the EAF scrap compared to the average global production mix which is increasingly expected to decarbonise over time. 
 Table 4.15 Environmental impact assumptions and sources 
 Environmental impacts (ton of CO 2 per ton of crude steel) 
 2025 
 2030 
 2035 
 2040 
 Average global production mix 
 2.04 
 1.78 
 1.59 
 1.49 
 EAF scrap 
 0.43 
 0.43 
 0.43 
 0.43 
 Source: 
 - Making net-zero steel possible, an industry backed, 1.5C aligned transition strategy - The mission possible partnership, page 54 and 55 
 Production share% 
 EAF scrap 
 29% 
 30% 
 31% 
 32% 
 EAF -DRI H2 50% 
 0% 
 6% 
 7% 
 9% 
 EAF-DRI natural gas 
 10% 
 4% 
 2% 
 0% 
 BOF - DRI melt 
 0% 
 5% 
 9% 
 13% 
 BF - DRI H2 
 0% 
 9% 
 16% 
 22% 
 BF – Best Available Technology 
 19% 
 23% 
 27% 
 20% 
 BF Average 2020 
 43% 
 23% 
 9% 
 5% 
 Source: 
 - Making net-zero steel possible, an industry backed, 1.5C aligned transition strategy - The mission possible partnership 
 For the economic assessment, the costs for improving scrap utilisation are estimated to be below other conversion investments. The highest share of costs are related to the improvement of scrap quality that are already covered under the policy options 3 and not taken into account here to avoid double counting. Additional sampling costs however, are connected to verification and included as specified below. The ‘revenues’ side would specifically relate to reduced future ETS compliance costs. For 2035 when free allowances under ETS have phased out, the conservative estimate for the external costs per ton of CO 2 eq is taken for this ‘revenue potential’. 
 Table 4.16 Economic impact assumptions and sources 
 Economic impacts 
 Avoided ETS costs 
 2025 
 2030 
 2035 
 2040 
 Default scenario: Low 
 84 
 108 
 132 
 156 
 Medium 
 142 
 185 
 227 
 269 
 High 
 266 
 344 
 421 
 498 
 Source: 
 European Commission, Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, Essen, H., Fiorello, D., El Beyrouty, K., et al., Handbook on the external costs of transport: version 2019 – 1.1, Publications Office, 2020, https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2832/51388 
 Sampling costs shredders 
 8 EUR/ ton 
 Source: 
 - R. Su, A. Assous, Starting from scrap, the key role of circular steel in meeting climate goals, Sandbag study 
 - Improve the EAF scrap route for a sustainable value chain in the EU Circular Economy scenario, ESTEP, 2021 
 Table 4.17 Shifts in the energy mix per production route 
 Energy mix global production 
 Electricity 
 Nat. gas 
 H 2 
 Coal 
 Iron ore 
 per ton of crude steel 
 MWh 
 m3 
 ton 
 ton 
 ton 
 EAF - scrap 
 0.600 
 15 
 - 
 0.020 
 0.08 
 EAF - DRI H 2 50% 
 0.680 
 120-151 
 0.020 
 1.66 
 EAF- DRI natural gas 
 0.680 
 240-300 
 0.024 
 0.020 
 1.66 
 BOF - DRI melt 
 - 
 158 
 0.235 
 1.22 
 BF - DRI H 2 
 - 
 0.024 
 0.235 
 1.22 
 BF – BAT 2020 
 - 
 0.470 
 1.22 
 BF - Average 
 - 
 0.635 
 1.22 
 Sources 
 - R. Su, A. Assous, Starting from scrap, the key role of circular steel in meeting climate goals, Sandbag study, page 52 
 - Z. Fan, S.J. Friedmann, Low-carbon production of iron and steel: Technology options, economic assessment and policy, Joule 5, 829-862, April 21, 2021, Elsevier Inc. 
 - Making net-zero steel possible, an industry backed, 1.5C aligned transition strategy - The mission possible partnership, page 54 and 55 
 Conversions to MWh 
 m3 natural gas to MWh 
 0.011 
 MWh 
 ton to MWh 
 33 
 MWh 
 ton coal to MWh 
 2.46 
 MWh 
 With above values, per ton of high-quality scrap utilised better, the following shift in the (fossil fuel) energy replacements compared to the global production mix are computed. Obviously, the EAF scrap route means more electricity demand and reduced demand in the other energy types dependent on the production mix changing over time. 
 Table 4.17 Shifts in the energy mix per ton of scrap utilised better 
 Energy type 
 2030 
 2035 
 2040 
 Electricity 
 +0.51 
 MWh 
 +0.51 
 MWh 
 +0.51 
 MWh 
 +0.51 
 MWh 
 +0.51 
 MWh 
 +0.51 
 MWh 
 Natural gas 
 -23.61 
 m3 
 -0.25 
 MWh 
 -29.68 
 m3 
 -0.31 
 MWh 
 -34.27 
 m3 
 -0.36 
 MWh 
 Hydrogen 
 -0.004 
 ton 
 -0.14 
 MWh 
 -0.006 
 ton 
 -0.20 
 MWh 
 -0.007 
 ton 
 -0.25 
 MWh 
 Coal 
 -0.40 
 ton 
 -0.98 
 MWh 
 -0.33 
 ton 
 -0.81 
 MWh 
 -0.29 
 ton 
 -0.71 
 MWh 
 Iron ore 
 -1.20 
 ton 
 -1.19 
 ton 
 -1.19 
 ton 
 Making net-zero steel possible, an industry backed, 1.5C aligned transition strategy - The mission possible partnership, page 54 and 55 
 4.9 Methodological approach for the CRM assessment – JRC 
 The methodological approach for the CRM assessment is included in Annex 15.1 
 4.10 EPR and compliance cost scenarios 
 The proposed measures would generate important transfer of revenues and costs between the different actors in the supply chain. They have been estimated to the extent that this is possible with a detailed assessment on which economic actor would be expected to bear the costs and, or valorise the revenues, but this depends on a range of variables. 
 This is the case especially for the calculation of the economic impact linked to the adoption of measures on “extended producer responsibility” under the preferred option ( PO5B ). The implementation of measures under PO4C aimed at improving high quality recycling and a higher recovery of waste, is likely to increase the operating and investment costs of dismantlers and shredding operators. When these costs offset the revenues for these operators, EPR schemes would require that vehicle manufacturers compensate them via appropriate financial support. 
 Projections have been made in this impact assessment on the additional costs for manufacturers generated by the “EPR-related” measures. The costs would depend on the profitability of dismantlers and shredders, which will be determined to a large extent by: 
 1. The evolution of prices of components and spare parts removed by Authorised Treatment Facilities (ATFs) for re-use or recycling, the evolution of prices of recyclates (notably compared to virgin products), 
 2. The value of the remaining hulk of ELVs sent by ATFs to shredders, as well as by the investments needed and economies of scale realised by ATFs, shredders and recyclers. Due to reduction in revenues from dismantled materials at ATFs, the value of remaining hulks is accounted for the economic impact tables presented in Annex 8.2. 
 The two other main costs for vehicle manufacturers would be linked to the measures on recycled content for plastics and steel ( PO2B ), and to a lesser extent for the measures the circular design of vehicles ( PO1C ). 
 3. For plastics recycled content, the main elements affecting these future ‘rebalances’ are the value of plastic recyclates where it assumed that due to increased availability, two-thirds of the revenues are for the recyclers and one-third for the manufacturer due to improved economies of scale and related price reductions. 
 4. A similar situation applies to the costs and revenues for improving ELV steel scrap quality. The sampling costs are attributed to the shredders, whereas the revenues are expected to be shared between the steel industry and the shredders. 
 Finally, a significant effect related to the reduction of revenues from used vehicles at exporters and increased number of vehicles collected and dismantled at ATFs. 
 5. Some of the revenue potential will be recovered by increased sales of spare parts and the material value that ATF will pay out to the car dealers involved. 
 Based on these 5 elements, a sensitivity analysis is conducted to understand better which cost and revenues levels per actor are possible, as specified in below Table 
 The projections have taken into account situations ranging from one where all the costs linked to the new measures on waste treatment would be passed on from the dismantlers/shredders to the vehicle manufacturers (in which case the contribution by vehicle producers to EPR schemes would be in the order of 41€/vehicle) to the other scenario where these new costs for dismantlers and shredders would all be offset under normal market conditions (in which case the contribution by vehicle manufacturers would be around 5€/vehicle, linked to measures designed to increase the collection of ELVs essentially). 
 Table 4.18 Sensitivity analysis EPR compliance cost range 
 Expected cost/ revenue redistribution 
 (2035, compared to baseline) 
 Revenues plastic recyclates 
 Min 
 Default 
 Max 
 To recyclers 
 40% 
 67% 
 100% 
 To manufacturers (price rebalance) 
 100% - value above 
 Costs steel recycled content 
 Min 
 Default 
 Max 
 Steel industry (cost HQ scrap) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
 Manufacturers (premium RC steel) 
 100% - value above 
 Revenues steel recycled content 
 Min 
 Default 
 Max 
 Shredders (revenues HQ scrap) 
 25% 
 50% 
 75% 
 Steel industry (reduced process cost) 
 100% - value above 
 Reduced revenue dismantled hulks 
 Min 
 Default 
 Max 
 Reduced revenue ATFs 
 80% 
 90% 
 100% 
 Reduced costs shredders 
 100% - value above 
 Revenues improved vehicle collection 
 Min 
 Default 
 Max 
 To ATFs 
 0% 
 75% 
 100% 
 Remains with car dealers 
 100% - value above 
 It should be noted that the impact will differ between Member States, notably between those which have already advanced EPR schemes (like the Netherlands, where producers paid a fee of 22.5€/vehicle in 2023 and 30€ in 2022 to the competent PRO) and those for which have not set up any particular EPR mechanism. The contributions of vehicle manufacturers will be expected to be higher in Member States which have not set up any EPR scheme so far. The differences in costs between the Member States could not be quantified. A detailed sensitivity analysis per member state is however not feasible due to lack of detailed information. 
 Annex 5: Fit For Future Platform Opinion 
 Topic title 
 Revision of the end-of-life vehicles directive and the directive on the type-approval of motor vehicles 
 AWP 2022 
 104 
 . 
 Directive 2000/53/EU on end-of-life vehicles 
 105 
 and Directive 2005/64/EC on 3R type-approval 
 106 
 . 
 Legal reference 
 Date of adoption 
 05 December 2022 
 Opinion reference 
 2022/SBGR2/05 
 Policy cycle reference 
 þ 
 Contribution to ongoing legislative process 
 CWP 2022, Annex II 
 107 
 , revision of the end-of-life vehicles Directive and the Directive on the type approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 Commission work programme reference 
 The revision will promote a more circular approach by linking design issues to end-of-life treatment, considering rules on mandatory recycled content for certain materials of components and improving recycling efficiency. The merging of the two Directives into a single instrument, covering the whole life-cycle of the automotive sector, would provide legal clarity to economic operators and administrations, compared to the current situation which relies on a fragmented approach: cars are covered by Directive 2005/64/EC when they are put on the market, while end-of-life cars are covered by Directive 2000/53/EC. A move to online tools and the use of digital solutions would help to reduce avoidable administrative burden, notably related to the reporting obligations or other procedures, e.g. vehicle (de-) registration and notification systems. In this regard, the revision of the Directive will aim to improve the operational feasibility and implementation of the Directive, and optimize administrative burden through better use of digital solutions and coherence with other sectoral policies and legislation based on a life-cycle approach. 
 Planned adoption: Q2, 2023 
 ☐ 
 Contribution to the (ongoing) evaluation process 
 - 
 Title of the (ongoing) evaluation 
 No 
 ☐ 
 Included in Annex VI of the Task force for subsidiarity and proportionality 
 No 
 ☐ 
 Other 
 No 
 Have your say: Simplify! 
 No relevant suggestions on this topic have been received from the public. 
 5.1. Suggestions summary 
 Suggestion 1: 
 Consider a digital vehicle passport including details on used materials 
 Suggestion 2: 
 Refine the definitions for end-of-life vehicles and used vehicles/ parts of vehicles 
 Suggestion 3: 
 Consider full digitalisation of the registration system and (2) installation of a central registration system and/or interoperable systems or ensuring the compatibility and coordination of the registration systems across and within Member States 
 Suggestion 4: 
 Enforce the certificate of destruction (COD) necessary for deregistration and implement a systemic differentiation between temporary and permanent deregistration 
 Suggestion 5: 
 Improve implementability of the ELV-Directive's requirements through a reward system for deregistration and/or dismantling 
 Suggestion 6: 
 Ensure coherence with other legislation, e.g., the Batteries Directive 2006/66/EC and the REACH Regulation 
 Suggestion 7: 
 Improve compliance and enforcement possibilities through more realistic targets, common methodologies, and increased producer responsibility 
 5.2. Short description of the legislation analysed 
 The Directive 2000/53/EU on end-of-life vehicles 
 108 
 (ELV) aims to prevent waste from vehicles and at the reuse, recycle end-of life vehicles and their components to reduce the disposal of waste and the improvement in the environmental performance of all of the economic operators involved in the life cycle of vehicles. While harmonising environmental requirements, the Directive also seeks to ensure the smooth operation of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition in the EU through an EU-wide framework in order to ensure coherence between national approaches. Since its adoption in 2000, the Directive has not undergone any substantial revision. 
 Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles is the main piece of EU legislation linking the design of new vehicles and their reusability, recyclability and recoverability 
 109 
 . It lays down administrative and technical rules to ensure that a vehicle’s parts and materials may ultimately be reused, recycled and recovered as much as possible. It makes sure that the reused components do not cause any safety or environmental risks. This legislation applies to new models and models already being produced of cars and light commercial vans to be placed on the EU market. It requires that manufacturers recommend strategies in place to properly manage the reusability, recyclability and recoverability requirements of the legislation. 
 Further sources of evidence: 
 - Have your say 
 110 
 - Legislative framework website 
 111 
 . 
 - Public consultation 
 112 
 . 
 - Evaluation SWD of the on end-of-life vehicles directive 
 113 
 . 
 - RegHub consultation on the implementation of the end-of-life vehicles Directive 
 114 
 . 
 5.3. Problem description 
 Existing evidence suggests the following issues: 
 The production of vehicles has undergone significant changes since the adoption of the Directive 20 years ago. These transformations have been influenced by the increasing use of new technologies and components in cars, such as plastics, carbon fibre or electronics, causing specific challenges for their recovery and recycling from ELVs. 
 Based on stakeholders’ consultation 
 115 
 , the evaluation reports that with regard to regulatory burdens or complexities, the most common response 
 116 
 on this point concerned the overlaps between the ELV Directive and Batteries Directive , as collection and recycling of batteries is already regulated by the latter. Burdensome reporting was another issue highlighted by some Authorised Treatment Facilities (ATF) due to the existing duplicated reporting obligations at the national level. 
 Respondents also specifically asked to simplify the reporting obligations deriving from the ELV Directive by using online tools . 
 Secondly, changes were also proposed in the vehicle (de-) registration and notification systems, with the suggestion that vehicle registrations could be cancelled directly by authorised dismantlers, which would reduce the workload for authorities and represent an effective measure to reduce the number of untracked exports and unregulated ELVs. 
 Findings of the survey on the administrative specific costs contribute also to the overall assessment of the administrative burden 
 117 
 . Although the responses received vary between Member States and should be treated with caution, the data collected show the tendency that companies, e.g., recyclers and ATFs, on average spend more resources on technical compliance than other stakeholder types. It also appears that public authorities seem to have higher costs across most categories, but particularly for data collection, and technical compliance. 
 The digitalisation of procedures linked to the implementation of the ELV Directive can potentially contribute to reducing administrative burden. However, regarding the other aspects, there is no clear evidence that the ELV Directive leads to unnecessary administrative burden or complex procedures for stakeholders, including private sector and public authorities. 
 Regarding coherence , there are also fairly numerous of discrepancies between the ELV Directive and other pieces of legislation . For example, the definitions of the terms “reuse” and “recycling” are different in the ELV Directive and in the Waste Framework Directive (WFD). The Waste Shipment Regulation establishes the rules governing the transboundary movement of waste vehicles, which are classified as “hazardous waste” for shipments inside and outside the EU. There is however a difficulty in distinguishing between a “used vehicle” and an “ELV” for export purposes. This is not specifically defined by the legal instruments, but guidance documents, such as the Waste Correspondents’ Guidelines No 9 
 118 
 on waste vehicles, have been developed. These guidelines have however proven difficult to use in practice . Another guidance document on the end-of-life vehicles provides the general rule on clarifying the links of the ELV Directive with the Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and the RoHS Directive on restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment: “if the ELV Directives applies, the WEEE and RoHS Directives are not applicable”. Clearer distinction on defining which components are under the scope of the ELV Directive and which are under the scope of the RoHS/WEEE Directives would facilitate an ELV operator in attributing devices or parts of them to the correct waste stream . 
 In some instances, the wording used in the Directive 2005/64/EC on the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to their reusability, recyclability and recoverability lacks precision and leaves room for interpretation . 
 ( Source : ELV Evaluation 
 119 
 ) 
 While embracing the objectives of the ELV Directive, the respondents to the RegHub consultation consider an update necessary , due to, e.g., changes in vehicle production (e.g., the use of new technologies and components), the increased production and use of electric vehicles , remaining unsolved problems like the handling of the certificate of destruction (COD) or a de facto absence of an extended producer responsibility for car manufacturers in many Member States. In line with the evaluation's findings, missing vehicles and illegal dismantling in unauthorised treatment facilities are a persistent problem and still constitute a major issue for the development and competitiveness of the authorised waste treatment sector and require new solutions to enable high-quality recycling. 
 Many respondents agree that the current ELV does not reflect sufficiently the importance of manufacturing components and materials in a way that they are easier to dismantle, reuse, recycle, and recover, and further to limit the use of non-recoverable components and hazardous substances . Only if design requirements ensure that the respective components can be removed, recycled, and/or reinstalled (in particular regarding electronics currently being blocked ), can ATFs effectively work and increase their revenue and viability. The creation of recovery/disposal value chains is another prerequisite. 
 The large majority of respondents to the RegHub consultation expect a revision of Directive 2005/64/EC (3R type approval) and Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles to clarify definitions of reusability, recyclability, and recoverability and align them with the ELV Directive and eventually increase legal certainty, transparency and avoid misinterpretation of provisions. 
 The absence of reliable and comparable data is seen as a major hurdle to appropriately determine both targets i.e., for recycling and recovery, and measures to counteract the phenomenon of missing vehicles and illegal export and dismantling. A common EU methodology for the calculation of the reuse and recycling targets is therefore largely supported, because it can avoid misinterpretation and create more reliable and realistic benchmarks and processes. According to the respondents, the current regulation by Decision 2005/293/EC is not precise enough, manipulatable, and would need to be transposed into a reviewed ELV Directive . 
 Most respondents would further support the Commission's proposal for direct cancellations of vehicle registrations by ATFs, given a solution is found for temporary deregistered vehicles' verifiable whereabouts, for which the last holder/owner should remain responsible. Moreover, only if final de-registrations are linked to an obligation to hand over to an ATF, direct cancellation makes sense (finally deregistered vehicle = waste). Another caveat is made with regard to vehicles deregistered for export: here, ATFs are not involved and some respondents argue, that therefore the final deregistration should remain with the vehicle registration authority. 
 Most respondents support a harmonised and fully digitalised deregistration process to simplify the flow of information and eventually lead to a creation of a European database that makes vehicle tracking possible and thereby tackling the issue of missing vehicles. They further advocate a harmonisation and digitalisation of CODs in order to increase their enforcement and make illegal dismantling more difficult across the EU. 
 Regarding the coordination with other legislation, the respondents underline the need to harmonise limit values and definitions in order to prevent contradictions, delineate responsibilities for market authorities, facilitate controls and enforcement, and simplify waste assessment. 
 Beyond the aforementioned levers to lift administrative burden and facilitate the implementation of the ELV, the RegHub respondents have made suggestions on how an updated ELV Directive could be better aligned with core environmental principles such as the polluter-pays principle and the principle of waste hierarchy . These measures are believed to address market and regulatory failures, increase the overall implementability of the Directive, better support the objectives of a circular economy, increase the viability of ATFs, adapt to new (technological challenges), and decrease burden in the long run: 
 · Adapt recycling and recovery targets to actual recoverability, and introduce material-specific targets – both taking into account new vehicle types and technologies; 
 · Introduce a European harmonised Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR); 
 · Privilege the use of materials in the vehicle design that increase the recyclability and durability of vehicles. 
 ( Source : RegHub consultation 
 120 
 ) 
 The Fit for Future Platform has acknowledged the issues raised by the legislation concerned as follows: 
 Despite an overall positive assessment of the ELV Directive's objectives and implementation after more than 20 years, it is considered not to be future proof and therefore requiring an update in line with technological change, economic and environmental requirements, as well as in alignment with sectoral legislation. 
 The current Directive, guideline and practices do not sufficiently provide for clarity, transparency and comparability regarding definitions, targets, and methodologies. Moreover, the harmonisation and digitalisation of tools and processes, such as vehicle (de-)registration, and exchange of information between waste management operators and licensing authorities, including on certificates of destruction, is not complete, which makes the management of end-of-life vehicles burdensome. Insufficient information by vehicle manufacturers about materials and components used in vehicles contributes to the economic unviability of authorised treatment facilities. Current obligations to include recyclability and durability criteria in vehicle design and production are also not conducive to achieving ELV objectives and improve recyclability, recoverability and reusability of end-of-life vehicles. 
 The focus of the review should therefore be on the clarification, harmonisation and extension of existing definitions, targets and methodologies across Member States and in alignment with sectoral legislation. It should provide more clarity and transparency about vehicle composition and recyclability, in particular for waste management operators and authorities. 
 Likewise, such clarity and transparency are needed for the deregistration of end-of-life vehicles, in order to be able to tackle the problem of missing vehicles and illegal dismantling. The inclusion of reviewed and new recycling and recovery targets, as well as an incentive system to improve waste reduction and recovery along the life cycle of a vehicle, from design to production to recovery, should be aimed at to effectively address new challenges. 
 The merge of Directive 2005/64/EC (3R type approval) and Directive 2000/53/EC on end-of-life vehicles was announced in the Commission Work Programme 2022 with a public consultation having taken place in summer/autumn 2021. While this opinion makes suggestions for the regulatory content, it does make any suggestions regarding a possible merge of the Directives. 
 5.4. Suggestions 
 Suggestion 1: Consider a digital vehicle passport including details on used materials 
 Description : In recent years, new vehicles have become increasingly difficult to dismantle and recycle as new substances are being used and the different parts of those vehicles as well as the way they are built into the vehicle have become more complex. Yet, dismantlers are still being provided only insufficient and legally uncoordinated information by vehicle manufacturers (for instance in most Member States via the IDIS-System [International Dismantling Information System]) 
 121 
 regarding the presence, localisation, composition and re-use potential of components in ELV and regarding the presence of (hazardous) materials hampering high quality recycling. 
 122 
 123 
 Therefore, it is recommended to consider a mandatory digital "vehicle passport" that automobile manufacturers have to provide to dismantling facilities for every new vehicle model that enters the market and in line with the applicable requirements of related regulation, such as the expected EU battery regulation. 
 124 
 Similar procedures as for the repair and maintenance information in Annex X of the Regulation (EU) 2018/858 could be considered. This "vehicle passport" should include detailed information on the presence and localisation of vehicle parts and materials used as well as notices regarding their recyclability and references to parts for re-use. 
 125 
 Such "product passports" already exist for other products (cf. EU Ship Recycling Regulation or Proposal for Eco-design for Sustainable Products Regulation) , especially technological devices, and have become common practice in these product areas. 
 126 
 In order to keep possible additional administrative burdens (e.g., through ICT-development) at acceptable levels, it is important to analyse the expected impacts of the vehicle passport on manufacturers, registration authorities, and other stakeholders in advance, and to develop any suggested system based on the experiences made with the existing systems, such as IDIS for dismantling, IMDS/GADSL/SCIP for material declarations/ SVHC declarations or individual platforms for tracking spare part availabilities (Catena-X, B-parts from individual groups of manufacturers). The simplification and reduction potential could be achieved through a targeted extraction of key information from existing platforms to respective end-users (consumers, garages, dismantlers, shredders, etc.) with different data needs. 
 Expected benefits : The electronic provision of such information would firstly facilitate the dismantling, re-use and recycling of vehicles and thus lower the costs of these measures. This would first and foremost decrease the burdens for dismantling facilities linked to the identification of the different materials used in the specific car type, their location inside the vehicle and the connections between the different vehicle components. Hence, the vehicle passport will lead to an easier and accelerated dismantling and recycling procedure. While the passport will increase the burdens for vehicle producers and the administration in terms of enforcing this passport, it will potentially also reduce some of the burdens for the administration in terms of the enforcement and control regarding the attainment of recycling goals by vehicle producers and dismantling facilities. 
 The information provided would also allow more re-use and recycling and namely more "high-quality" recycling, preserving valuable materials. This would then not only have a beneficial economic impact due to the materials and components retrieved but also environmental benefits. 
 Suggestion 2: Refine the definitions for end-of-life vehicles and used vehicles/ parts of vehicles 
 Description : One of the largest issues with regards to the implementation of the ELV-Directive has been the illegal export of vehicles outside of the EU that are within the scope of the ELV-Directive and therefore should be disposed of within EU borders. 
 127 
 128 
 Amongst others, one of the central issues here has been the false labelling of end-of-life vehicles as "used vehicles" in order to bypass the provisions of the ELV Directive. 
 129 
 In order for authorities to have a clear guidance on which vehicles should be allowed for export as "used vehicles" and which vehicles should be prohibited from getting exported as "end-of-life vehicles", the definitions for these categories should be specified, as it has already (at least partially, but not legally binding) been done in the Correspondents' guidelines No. 9 on the disposal of ELV, adopted by the Member States, 
 130 
 which however are not deemed sufficient. 
 131 
 132 
 Special attention should be given to export situations in which the differentiation between vehicle 'labels' is not straightforward (e.g., hobby cars vs. end-of-life vehicles), but requires additional measures to properly supervise ELV vehicles. The implementation in Italy can be considered a favourable example for such differentiation: While the Highway Code 
 133 
 allows deregistration for exports only if the vehicle complies with the Periodical Technical Inspection (PTI) and if no order for an extraordinary PTI has been issued by policy authorities, special cases, such as an owner selling a vehicle in another country, can be settled if the owner proves the re-registration in that country by submitting a copy of the corresponding registration certificate. 
 Likewise, a revised Directive should provide clear definitions for "re-use" and "preparing for re-use", since these are essential regarding the re-use of parts of ELVs and determine whether parts for re-use are put newly on the market and need to fulfil the respective requirements. 
 Regarding damaged vehicles, it should be ensured that technically repairable vehicles and parts of vehicles can only be resold to automotive professionals. (Parts of) vehicles that cannot be technically repaired must be sold for destruction to approved centres. 
 Expected benefits : This would lead to more certainty with regards to which cars have to be kept within EU borders for public authorities and potentially simplify administrative processes. 
 134 
 Countries outside of the EU, in which those vehicles are generally sold and disposed of, will benefit from a stricter EU export policy in two ways, if the latter is accompanied by a stricter supervision of exports of used vehicles and spare parts: First, a reduced intake of (parts of) inappropriately dismantled end-of-life vehicles, will reduce the number of disposed of vehicles and consequently the level of pollution caused by environmental dumping. Second, a reduction of the use of older, often more polluting, vehicles in the destination countries would reduce the level of air pollution in those countries 
 135 
 Furthermore, the materials retrieved from those end-of-life vehicles stopped from export can be reused within the EU which leads to their value staying within the EU as well. 
 136 
 Suggestion 3: Consider full digitalisation of the registration system and (2) installation of a central registration system and/or interoperable systems or ensuring the compatibility and coordination of the registration systems across and within Member States 
 Description : Currently, the degree of digitalisation of the registration system for vehicles varies between countries and still has not been fully achieved. This issue is also linked to the lack of a central common registration system and/or lack of compatibility and full coordination between the existing registration systems. 
 137 
 This leads to challenges occurring for vehicle owners and public authorities, especially when a car needs to be re-registered or deregistered in another region or Member State and the registration information is not available. 
 138 
 Such obstacles may lead to vehicle owners forgoing the deregistration procedure altogether and also to mistakes and system malfunctions happening regarding the registration and deregistration. 
 139 
 The lack of digitalisation and coordination thus makes it difficult in some cases to determine a vehicle's status with certainty, which also facilitates the illegal dismantling and disposal of vehicles at unauthorized treatment centres and the export to countries outside of the EU. 
 140 
 Therefore, it is recommended, that the Commission analyses the advantages and disadvantages of a common EU digital registration system 
 141 
 and thoroughly assesses its impacts. Should the expected administrative burden for setting up a central system exceed its expected benefits, it should at least be ensured that the different Member States' registration systems are made compatible with each other and/or are being coordinated, e.g., by harmonising the terms, data, and impact of de-registration and by requiring a harmonised digital registration of information to enable the EU-wide exchange of information, e.g., by using the EUCARIS-System, 
 142 
 and expanding the e-CoC concept. 
 Expected benefits : While these adaptations will require additional administrative efforts in the beginning, from a long-term perspective they will simplify the administrative work and decrease the administrative burden that is linked to the registration process, as seen in Portugal or Italy, where a central digital registration system is already in place. 
 143 
 In Italy, registration procedures both for export and scrapping are fully digitised and allow authorities and qualified private companies to access a fully telematic registry. 
 144 
 With these improvements regarding the registration and deregistration process, these procedures will be more time-efficient and thus will also present an advantage to car owners that want to re- or deregister their vehicle in another Member State. 
 Moreover, this would allow for better control of the vehicles' status and strengthen the ability of enforcement authorities to carry out more stringent checks on compliance. This would potentially decrease the loss of vehicles as it would improve the vehicles' traceability. 
 145 
 This again would help against the loss of raw materials that could otherwise be recycled in the EU (as seen above). 
 Suggestion 4: Enforce the certificate of destruction (COD) necessary for deregistration and implement a systemic differentiation between temporary and permanent deregistration 
 Description : In most Member States, the deregistration is currently handled by public authorities while the dismantling is carried out by private dismantling facilities. At the same time, not all countries require the vehicle's last owner to provide a COD upon deregistration, which is serving as a proof that the vehicle has been properly dismantled, as it is required by the directive. This is due to the circumstance that some countries (e.g., Germany) do not differentiate between short-term deregistration and final deregistration or deregistration for final disposal or other purposes. 
 146 
 Thus, due to the lack of coordination, a destructed car is not necessarily also deregistered (which some Member States, e.g., Portugal, have tried to avoid by setting up a tax that only is dropped if the car is properly deregistered), 
 147 
 and a deregistered vehicle does not necessarily need to be destructed, leading to uncertainty regarding the vehicles' status. 
 148 
 Hence, it is recommended, that the Member States should be required to implement a system that requires every car owner to provide a COD issued by an authorized dismantling facility before permanent deregistration 
 149 
 150 
 and, therefore, if not already practiced, systematically differentiate between temporary and permanent de-registration. 
 151 
 Such system could further be harmonised across the EU, because otherwise an illegal dismantling shadow economy in one Member State may undermine the efforts in another Member State. 
 In order to decrease the workload for authorities regarding the vehicle deregistration, make it more effective and easier to enforce, the use of digitalised CODs and the strengthening of internet-based exchanges between the vehicle registration authority and the recovery facilities are seen as indispensable. 
 152 
 In addition to the differentiated process for deregistration, Member States could be encouraged to introduce systems of incentives that ensure that a vehicle's status is known and that temporarily deregistered vehicles are re-registered with specified time-limits. Depending on the national situation, such system may – besides de-registration time-limits – include measures such as reporting duties for car owners, or rewards for deregistration and dismantling (see suggestion 5). 
 153 
 154 
 Other examples for incentives for vehicle owners to properly return end-of-life vehicle to ATFs, include the linking of the COD for an end-of-life vehicle to the insurance premium (as in place in the Czech Republic) or to specific taxes (e.g., road taxes in Spain). 
 155 
 In the absence of incentives, vehicle owners might bypass the destruction obligation by temporarily deregistering an end-of-life vehicle, not having to fear any follow-up on the re-registration. The introduction of such measures should follow common guidelines to be introduced by the European Commission in order to assure a coherent treatment of temporarily deregistered vehicles. Provisions regarding time limits for temporary deregistration should be designed in a way that the administrative burden for registration authorities is kept to a minimum. 
 Direct vehicle deregistration by ATFs can be envisaged if it can be ensured that final deregistration is equivalent with the handing-over to a recovery facility (i.e., deregistered vehicle = waste). 
 156 
 Expected benefits : This would ensure that only dismantled cars are permanently deregistered and that authorities have an oversight on the vehicles' status, i.e. whether it has been destructed or just temporarily deregistered. 
 In the latter case of temporary deregistration, the reporting duties of car owners on the vehicle's status and limitation of the time period, during which a vehicle can be temporarily deregistered, can act as a tool for public authorities to control the implementation of the ELV-Directive's objectives but also to ensure the tracking of vehicles even after deregistration. Likewise, can a system of (dis-)incentives encourage timely reregistration and increase the number of vehicles actually dismantled in line with the ELV Directive. 
 With the deregistration procedure thus being designed more comprehensively by better streamlining the vehicle (de)registration procedures with the ELV specific provisions, this would potentially discourage car owners from illegally selling their end-of-life vehicles or letting them be dismantled at unauthorized dismantling facilities. Hence, it would also have a positive environmental and economic (due to the materials' values) impact. 
 Suggestion 5: Improve implementability of the ELV-Directive's requirements through a reward system for deregistration and/or dismantling 
 Description : With one of the biggest challenges in the implementation of the ELV-Directive being the loss of end-of-life vehicles due to illegal exports or illegal disposal, 
 157 
 it has been observed that financial incentives have helped increase the number of cars dismantled and deregistered and therefore have helped with the implementation of the ELV-Directive. 
 158 
 159 
 There are two major ways in which Member States have created such financial incentives, one being the introduction of rewards for dismantling (e.g. the "Abwrackprämie" (=scrapping premium) in Germany and similar initiatives in France, Italy and Spain in 2008/09 
 160 
 ) and the other one being a reward system for the deregistration for example in Portugal and Denmark. 
 161 
 If scrapping premiums are used, they should be designed in a way that ELV recyclers are not passed over and put at a disadvantage compared to shredder companies, i.e. that the provisions allow the transfer of end-of-life vehicles to parts recyclers. 
 Negative financial incentives for non-compliance with current regulations, such as fines for last owners/holders who dispose of their vehicle illegally or transfer only incomplete end-of-life vehicles to ATFs, and penalties for illegal dismantlers might be considered as well. 
 162 
 Therefore, it is recommended that the Commission encourages Member States to establish such reward systems for deregistration and/or dismantling, taking into account the country-specific situation. 
 163 
 A potential reward system for dismantling could include the condition that the reward is used for more sustainable transportation alternatives (including electric cars), while a reward system for deregistration could be such that charges are levied for the duration of the temporary deregistration, which should be lifted if the car is permanently deregistered. 
 Expected benefits : This will potentially reduce the number of vehicles that are being illegally exported or disposed, thus improve implementability of the ELV-Directive. 
 164 
 With the incentive to dispose of vehicles correctly, a reward system will also have environmental benefits due to proper recycling in authorised facilities and economic benefits due to the materials recovered. 
 165 
 Suggestion 6: Ensure coherence with other legislation, e.g., the Batteries Directive 2006/66/EC and the REACH Regulation 
 Description : Currently, treatment facilities are subject to various different provisions stemming from different directives with some of their obligations being redundant or not well aligned in certain constellations, e.g., regarding the Batteries Directive and the ELV-Directive in the case of electric vehicles. 
 166 
 With the growth of the electric vehicle market, the revision of the ELV-Directive should therefore be closely aligned with the revision of the Batteries Directive. 
 167 
 Likewise, a revision of the ELV Directive should take into account inconsistencies and gaps currently found with regard to the REACH Regulation. In this context, special attention should be given to ensure the re-use of parts from the circular economy. While a merging of the two legislations is considered difficult, for at least limit values regarding the hazardousness of waste should be consistent. 
 168 
 It is therefore recommended, to examine the reporting obligations imposed by related directives and find a clearer differentiation with regards to the applicability of the directives in order to avoid doubled reporting obligations. 
 169 
 Moreover, contradictory definitions, limit values and targets should be assessed and streamlined. 
 170 
 Expected benefits : This will significantly increase definitory clarity, decrease the workload with regards to reporting obligations and thus potentially lead to reporting obligations being complied with more frequently. Consistent definitions and limit values will also facilitate controls and enforcement for market surveillance authorities and simplify waste assessment with regard to its hazardousness. 
 Suggestion 7: Improve compliance and enforcement possibilities through more realistic targets, common methodologies, and increased producer responsibility 
 Description : The current design of the ELV Directive leaves the treatment of end-of-life vehicles behind its possibilities. While country-specific circumstances need to be taken into account and accurate cost-benefit analyses need to be the basis of any revision that includes new procedures and measures, some adjustments could be considered in order to sharpen the targeting of the Directive and to address situations of market and regulatory failure. Such opportunities can currently be identified with regard to better definitions, better specifications for pre-treatment removal and post-treatment shredding, minimum quality requirements, recycled content targets, and material-specific targets for some materials. If cost-effective solutions are found, they can help to reduce the currently disproportionate regulatory burden faced by ATFs, and ultimately to achieve reuse, recycling and recovery targets in line with the polluter pays principle and the principle of waste hierarchy. 
 Common definitions and methodologies can enable more realistic targets and improve recycling and recovery 
 In the absence of a common methodology for the calculation of reuse and recycling targets, a desirable cross-EU comparison of results and performance regarding the achievement of ELV targets is impossible. 
 171 
 A common methodology could further inform a more realistic and reliable setting of benchmarks and processes. The current regulation of calculation methods in Decision 2005/293/EC is considered not to be precise enough and therefore manipulatable. It is therefore recommended to propose a common methodology in a reviewed Directive 2000/53/EC. 
 172 
 A common definition of Post Shredder Treatment (PST) in the revised Directive could have advantages, because standardised separation and clearly defined treatment processes after shredding, leave less room for different interpretations, and eventually improve recovery and reduce environmental impact, e.g., by better management of 'fluff'. 
 173 
 Likewise, a minimum PST quality requirement on how to perform a shredder campaign – taking into account sectoral and country specific conditions – can improve recycling quality. A common definition of PST and common methodologies must not hinder innovation and competitiveness of ATFs with regard to shredding and post-shredding technologies, and should leave sufficient room to account for national conditions. 
 174 
 Test shreddings on randomly selected vehicles carried out in accordance with the Directive's provision could not only inform a common methodology as such, it could also help to review and establish standards for both combustion and electric vehicles. 
 175 
 Expected benefits : To introduce a binding common methodology for the calculation of reuse and recycling targets makes target values more transparent, realistic and achievable. It is thus expected to facilitate benchmarking and increase compliance with ELV targets. 
 A common definition of PST and a common methodology on how to perform a shredder campaign is expected to facilitate and improve recovery and reduce environmental impact, if it can be ensured that national conditions are taken into account and if new dismantling obligations are informed by comprehensive cost-benefit analyses. 
 Adapted and more realistic recycling targets can improve dismantling and high-quality recycling 
 The adaptation to technological development, including the increasing production and use of electric vehicles, the potential introduction of new vehicle types into the reviewed ELV Directive, and the continuous introduction of new (hazardous) substances to the vehicle production process, as well as the economic necessity to recover critical raw material, make a review of recycling targets necessary. 
 176 
 As mentioned before with regard to common calculation methods for recycling targets, any change or the creation of new (material-specific) targets should be based on reliable data and tests for different vehicle types, investigating the balance of materials and products, as well as the cost of management. To account for differences across Member States , varying fleet age and the actual capacity of dismantlers have to be considered, when determining calculation and finally targets. 
 177 
 It is therefore recommended to review the currently existing combined reuse and recycling targets based on weight and introduce material-specific targets, i.e., for low-volume critical raw material, where manageable and based on real data. To enable compliance, country-specific conditions have to be taken into account and waste management facilities should be supported to ensure their sustainability and competitiveness. 
 Further, to contribute to higher rates of reuse parts to make the removal of vehicle parts before shredding mandatory under the revised Directive for a list of components that can be updated is largely supported by the RegHub network. 
 Expected benefits : A higher contribution to circular economy objectives, more realistic targets, and material-specific targets based on real data will increase compliance, improve dismantling and separation, enable the recovery of critical raw material and overall increase high-quality recycling. 
 Including recyclability and durability criteria in vehicle design can facilitate dismantling and lift implementation burden from ATFs 
 The principle of waste hierarchy favours waste prevention as most effective mean to reduce negative impact and improve resource efficiency. Vehicle manufacturers are in a good position to prevent waste, when designing their vehicles, taking into account criteria favouring the recyclability and durability of materials and components. Vehicles currently on the market are less and less easy to reuse, recycle and recover, because such criteria are not sufficiently respected. The extensive use of electronic components and the development of proprietary software or hardware also has repercussions on the vehicle design and risks to hamper cross-brand services including dismantlement. This contributes substantially to the economic unviability of ATFs, difficult and insufficient recovery, and to higher levels of pollution. 
 In line with the polluter-pays principle, it is therefore recommended to consider the creation of incentives for vehicle manufacturers to comply with eco-design criteria, including through the introduction of a European harmonised Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), specifically tailored to end-of-life vehicle recycling. Such measure could include a financial contribution of vehicle manufacturers to compensate the average loss per vehicle for ATFs, with a particular focus on concepts that are not economically viable (e.g., plastics, glass, batteries) 
 178 
 . Should EPR schemes be considered for the revision of the ELV Directive, it should be ensured that well-functioning recycling processes are not disrupted. Existing effective relationships between manufacturers and ATFs should not be jeopardised by new requirements 
 179 
 . Further discussions could also consider the role of circular VAT rates, favouring the repair and reuse of (parts of) vehicles. 
 Furthermore, the suggested "vehicle passport" will only have real consequences, if the materials and components used are actually removable, reusable, recyclable and recoverable. Therefore, it is suggested to introduce design requirements and liability schemes that further facilitate dismantling and improve waste management. Modular design, standardisation, higher recovery rates, and use of recycled material and reuse of components should be encouraged, including by the setting of (new) targets, such as recycled content targets. 
 Additional measures such as mandatory life cycle analyses, where appropriate, for each vehicle and the obligation to ensure that only such materials, for which a reuse or recycle value chain is in place, are being used, can support this. 
 Expected benefits : All measures are expected to incentivise vehicle manufacturers to produce better recyclable vehicles, i.e., by using less heterogenous components and improving removability, and invest more resources to develop more sustainable products and processes. Both, design requirements and financial contributions by manufacturers, will facilitate the work of ATFs, reduce their costs and increase their revenues from better management. 
 Annex 6: Problems and drivers 
 4. 
 5. 
 1. 
 2. 
 6. 
 6.1. Introduction 
 The Impact Assessment addresses four main problem areas, which are partially inter-related: 
 1. The design and production of new vehicles do not sufficiently contribute to the ambitions of the Green Deal for a climate-neutral, clean and circular economy (“design” problem area); 
 2. The treatment of vehicles at the end of their life is suboptimal compared to its potential to contribute to a climate-neutral, clean and circular economy ( “end-of-life treatment” problem area); 
 3. An important share of vehicles subject to the ELV Directive are not collected to be treated in sound environmental conditions in the EU, contributing to the EU external pollution footprint in third countries ( “collection” problem area); 
 4. There is no EU level playing field for the design, production and end-of-life treatment of vehicles which are outside the scope of the ELV Directive, resulting in a situation where the contribution of these vehicles to the objectives of the Green Deal and circular economy objectives is under-exploited ( “scope” problem area). 
 Presentation of the problems, drivers and consequences has been framed taking into account the further structuring of the policy options, as some of these options are directly related to a single main problem, whereas others are indirectly related to multiple problems, especially in the case of extension of vehicle category scope and extended producer responsibility. 
 Figure 6.1 Overview of problems, drivers and consequences 
 The aim of the following sections of this Annex is to provide a descriptive overview of the problem areas, key drivers, developments and their interlinkages 
 6.2. Problem area No.1: Lack of integration of circularity in vehicle design and production 
 This is a dedicated section to overview all the relevant circularity specific problems emerging in the automotive sector that prevent the design, production of road vehicles be consistent with the levels of recycling and reuse necessary to contribute to the ambitions of the Green Deal to create a climate-neutral, clean and circular economy. 
 The evaluation of the End-of-Life Vehicle Directive and the 3R type-approval Directive 
 180 
 identified areas where the current legislation lies behind in terms of promoting a truly circular approach for the automotive sector due to the missing links between design and end-of-life treatment stages. Therefore, this review is looking into the shortcomings of both the End-of-Life Vehicle Directive and its mirror type approval Directive on vehicle reusability, recyclability and recoverability, which prescribe the requirements for the vehicle placement on the market with the rules for the end-of-life. 
 The following subsections provide an overview of the core circularity-related problem areas, their key drivers and consequences. 
 5 
 6 
 6.1 
 6.2 
 6.2.1 What is the key problem? 
 The EU is among the world's biggest producers of motor vehicles. The automotive sector provides direct and indirect jobs to 13.8 million Europeans, representing 6.1% of total EU employment. In 2021, 12 million motor vehicles (cars, vans, lorries, buses) were manufactured in the EU and 11.5 million were placed on the EU market 
 181 
 . The production of new vehicles represents a significant impact in terms of use of raw materials. Europe’s automotive sector is responsible for 19% of the demand of the EU’s steel industry (over 7 million tonnes/year 
 182 
 ), 10% of the overall consumption of plastics (6 million tonnes/year 
 183 
 ), as well as a significant share of the demand for aluminium (42% for all transport equipment, around 2 million tonnes/year 
 184 
 ), copper (6% for automotive parts 
 185 
 ), rubber (65% of the production of general rubber goods 
 186 
 ) and glass (1,5 million tonnes of flat glass produced at the EU 
 187 
 ). 
 The electrification of the automotive sector, combined with the increasing integration of electronics in vehicles, will lead to a growing use of copper, critical raw materials including rare earth elements. Rare earth elements (REEs) are mainly used for permanent magnets in EVs (average weight of 1-2 kg of permanent magnets per EVs), platinum group metals (PGMs) for catalytic converters (77% use share in autocatalysts) and printed circuit boards, gallium for lighting equipment and integrated circuits, magnesium (50% use share in automotive sector) and niobium (23% use share in automotive steel) for metal alloys, and natural rubber for production of tyres. Electric and electronic systems in vehicles also contain e.g., precious metals, gallium, tantalum, and REE. 
 The market demand has also resulted in a steady rise in sales of Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs). SUVs represented around 40% of annual car sales of vehicles in Europe in 2020, compared to 10% in 2010 
 188 
 . SUVs are heavier than conventional cars and their production requires the supply of a higher amount of primary materials, which increases considerably their environmental footprint. The relevance of these aspects is also recognised in terms of fuel efficiency. As noted in the EEA report on Monitoring CO 2 emissions from passenger cars and vans in 2018 
 189 
 , a n increase in sales of Sport utility vehicles (SUVs) was observed in recent years. In Europe, one out of three cars newly registered in 2018 were SUVs. Compared to regular cars (as hatchback or sedan), SUVs are typically heavier and have more powerful engines and larger frontal areas – all features that increase fuel consumption. On the broader terms, the EU is on the track to strengthen the CO 2 emission reduction requirements 
 190 
 . These should incentivise an increasing share of zero-emission vehicles being deployed on the Union market whilst providing benefits to consumers and citizens in terms of air quality, strengthening energy security and efficiency, and the associated energy savings, as well as ensuring that innovation in the automotive value chain can be maintained. Within the global context, also the EU automotive chain is seen as a leading actor in the on-going transition towards zero-emission mobility. 
 All these considerations led to the fact that the production of vehicles represents a considerable environmental footprint, primarily due to the GHG emissions linked to the energy required for the extraction and processing of primary materials such as coal and iron ore (for steel), bauxite (for aluminium), copper or oil (for plastics). The extraction and processing of metals represent about 10% of global greenhouse gas emissions globally 
 191 
 . In the EU, the steel industry represents 5% of CO 2 emissions while the aluminium industry accounts for 2% of global CO 2 emissions. The EU consumption linked to the raw material supply chains also has a social impact in third countries and is deemed to account for 14% of imported GHG emissions 
 192 
 . 
 The dependence on primary materials is also making the supply chain for the automotive industry more vulnerable , compounding the challenges observed recently with disruptions for semi-conductors or magnesium and the hike in energy prices consecutive to the war in Ukraine. 
 While the automotive industry is undergoing profound changes towards climate-neutrality when it comes to the use phase of vehicles through the electrification of the vehicle fleet, it is only starting to embrace the full transition to a circular economy. This aspect is however central for the efforts of the automotive industry to move towards the decarbonisation of their production process. In the current situation, the integration of circular models in the design, production and end-of-life stages of the vehicle lifecycle remains insufficient to attain the objectives of the Circular Economy Action Plan to “ promote more circular business models by linking design issues to end-of-life treatment, consider rules on mandatory recycled content for certain materials, and improve recycling efficiency ”. As a result, millions of tonnes of resources (including CRMs) are lost for the environment and the economy. 
 Closely linked to this problem is that of the use of hazardous substances in vehicles and its component parts. A large variety of chemicals, some of them classified as hazardous, are used in vehicles to provide different functionalities to coatings, alloys, electrical and electronic components, lubricants, hydraulic fluids and rubber, plastic, composite and textile elements used in the different parts that ultimately constitute a vehicle. Depending on their nature, use and location in the vehicle such hazardous substances can potentially pose a risk during vehicle manufacture and its subsequent service life and will remain therein once the vehicle reaches its end-of-life. The presence of such substances in materials that result from the disassembly, shredding and subsequent processing of the different vehicle fractions can pose a risk to the operators involved in the recycling operations and, if they remain present in the recovered materials (e.g. recovered alloys, plastic, etc) may make them unsuitable for their use as secondary raw materials. This is due to risks in their subsequent processing and use and from commercial and reputational risks that make them unattractive to the market due to quality and legal constraints brought about by the presence of these substances. 
 The presence of hazardous substances, especially of substances of concern 
 193 
 , in vehicles and in the materials subsequently recovered from them, may hinder the circularity of materials in vehicles, reducing their uptake into the economy and can potentially be a risk to human health and the environment during their whole life cycle. In turn this can have clear consequences in terms of adverse human and environmental health effects (due to exposure / releases of substances) and reduce the amounts of materials recovered from vehicles, thereby putting greater stress on primary resources, requiring additional waste disposal capacities and increasing the overall amount of greenhouse gas emissions typically associated to the use of primary materials (which have to replace material that would otherwise be recycled). 
 6.2.2 What are the key problem drivers? 
 The drivers for this problem are a combination of market and regulatory failures which result in a lack of integration of circularity in the design and production phase of vehicles. 
 – Market failure 
 - the price of primary materials is not competitive to the price of secondary materials 
 The prices of primary materials do not integrate the environmental externalities linked notably to their extraction and processing and have been usually lower than the prices of secondary materials due to economies of scale. Competitive price of recycled vs. virgin is highly dependent on the oil price which also hinder investments. Integration of recycled plastics is often considered as less straightforward by the automotive stakeholders due to the potential difference in mechanical or aesthetics properties and substances composition between virgin and recycled materials. The automotive industry has therefore not been incentivised to change its supply chain to source its products from recycled materials. The lack of demand for secondary materials from the automotive industry has in turn not encouraged the recycling sector to invest and increase the supply and quality of recyclates for their integration into new vehicles. 
 – Market failure 
 - insufficient quality and market availability of secondary materials 
 The automotive industry relies heavily, for the production of new vehicles, on the supply of primary raw materials and uses very little recycled materials. One reason is that the automotive industry requires materials like steel or aluminium alloys with a high level of purity and/or specific properties, which are not commonly available from recycling processes. Primary raw materials are also often cheaper and produced in larger volume that recyclates. The incorporation of recycled materials in new vehicles depends on the ability to guarantee a stable supply for suitable quality and volume of materials. Absence of legally mandatory recycled content targets for vehicles at the EU level have also contributed to this situation. This is the case for plastics, which explains why the share of recycled plastics used by the automotive sector is very low (2-3% on average 
 194 
 ), where uptake of the recyclates is carried primarily on voluntary basis. 
 – Regulatory failure - the current EU rules have not been effective enough to improve the eco-design of vehicles 
 Regulatory requirements have focused on the use phase of vehicles (rather than production and end-of-life stages). In addition, the growing use of new techniques to assemble parts (typically gluing elements instead of using screws) makes their disassembly more challenging and costly when vehicles reach the end of their life. It also hampers recycling as it prevents the division of shredded elements. On the other hand, the provisions in the ELV Directive 
 195 
 on the design of cars to facilitate dismantling, re-use, remanufacturing and recycling, as well as the uptake of recycled materials, are too vague and general . The most ambitious, specific and measurable provisions of the ELV Directive concern the “waste stage” of the vehicle, rather than its design and production. Article 4(1) obliges the Member States to take certain actions contributing to waste prevention, however, it is not clear how they should encourage vehicle manufacturers at the EU level to design and produce new vehicles which take into full account and facilitate the dismantling, reuse and recovery, in particular the recycling, of end-of-life vehicles, their components and materials. Moreover, the EU rules do not explain if they aim to ensure how the actions taken by the manufacturers should be coordinated and harmonized at the EU. 
 The provisions in the 3R type-approval Directive also lack precision and leave room for interpretation . Article 6(3) of the Directive states: “For the purpose of paragraph 1, the manufacturer shall recommend a strategy to ensure dismantling, reuse of component parts, recycling and recovery of materials. The strategy shall take into account the proven technologies available or in development at the time of the application for a vehicle type-approval.” Generally, the manufacturer submits the strategy for dismantling etc. during the preliminary assessment. Certificate of compliance, granted during the type-approval process, shall describe this strategy recommended by the manufacturer (Article 6(5)). For this purpose, a ‘strategy’ is defined as a large-scale plan consisting of coordinated actions and technical measures to be taken as regards dismantling, shredding or similar processes, recycling and recovery of materials to ensure that the targeted recyclability and recoverability rates are attainable at the time a vehicle is in its development phase. Though, the ‘strategies of the vehicle manufacturers are approved by type approval authorities’, in practice this strategy does not go beyond commitments to certain strategic goals of the company and is not specific to the vehicles to be type approved. There are no explicit requirements as to the content of the strategy, except for that it “shall take into account the proven technologies available or in development at the time of the application for a vehicle type-approval”. The reference to proven technologies “in development” also creates some uncertainty as to the fact that these technologies will be available when the cars in question will become ELVs. Therefore, the effectiveness of the current provisions of the 3R type-approval Directive setting the obligation for the manufacturers to “recommend the strategy” is not clear enough to prove the compliance of a vehicle with the design related requirements prior the vehicle placement on the market. 
 3R-type-approval Directive is not effective enough to demonstrate that vehicles placed on the market are reusable , recyclable and recoverable , particularly when it comes to (i) verifying that the reuse, recycling and recovery targets in ELV Directive are met and (ii) incentivising a more sustainable vehicle design and production. For example, the definitions of “reusability”, “recyclability” and “recoverability” in 3R type-approval Directive refer to the “potential” for “reusability”, “recyclability” and “recoverability” 
 196 
 . Potential recycling is quite different from actual recycling (which takes place for the vehicles concerned many years later) and it is not clear how this potential is calculated. Overall, the verification of how car manufacturers meet their obligations on “reusability”, “recyclability” and “recoverability” is largely built on an ISO standard which contains very limited elements and does not take into account the degree of development in recycling technologies. Declarations on fulfilment of the reuse, recycling and recovery targets submitted by vehicle manufacturers and checked by approval authorities, through the technical services/competent bodies, as part of the 3R Type Approval process do not reflect the achievable rates of these targets at end-of-life. In this regard, the evaluations of the ELV Directive and 3R Type-approval Directive have found minor inconsistencies between the two legislations. 
 According to Article 6(1) of Directive 2005/64/EC “Member States shall not grant any type- approval without first ensuring that the manufacturer has put in place satisfactory arrangements and procedures, in accordance with point 3 of Annex IV, to manage properly the reusability, recyclability and recoverability aspects covered by this Directive. When this preliminary assessment has been carried out, a certificate named ‘Certificate of Compliance with Annex IV’ (hereinafter the certificate of compliance) shall be granted to the manufacturer”. 
 The Directive 2005/64/EC provides a number of obligations that need to be complied with by the Member States and car manufacturers on how to demonstrate that new models comply with the relevant obligations under EU law on reusability, recyclability and recoverability. Current calculation requires the specification of the vehicle material breakdown to separate materials (e.g., glass, metals, etc.) and also an estimation of the share of material that is reusable, recyclable, recoverable or both. For this purpose, a component part is “considered as reusable, recyclable or both based on its dismantlability, assessed by: accessibility, fastening technology, and proven dismantling technologies”. A part is considered recyclable based on its material composition, and proven recycling technologies. This does not differentiate however between different qualities of recycling. Thus, for example, as observed in the case of glass used in vehicles, the existing method enables referring to glass towards the calculation of recyclability as in principle it can be dismantled and there are techniques that would allow its recycling. However, in practice, glass is usually separated from other materials through shredding activities, leading to only a low-quality recycling (e.g., backfilling) being possible. 
 To conclude whether a material is recyclable, as specified in the ISO, OEMs use a list of “proven recycling technologies”. In line with the ISO 22628: 2002, technologies that have been successfully tested on a laboratory scale or above are considered to be “proven”. The list is managed by the automotive association. The ISO standard refers to additional lists of “proven technologies for fastening” and “proven technologies for dismantling”. OEMs probably have an idea of relevant technologies; however, such lists are not used in the type-approval process to conclude on the dismantlability of a part and its potential for reuse. The reuse of parts is not considered towards the calculation and in that sense though it can be concluded that the process may facilitate recycling and recovery, it is not clear why it is assumed to facilitate reuse. Though the 3R type-approval process requires manufacturers to specify recycled amounts separately, it does not require a differentiation between qualities of recycling (high quality vs. downcycling). Insofar it cannot be considered effective in facilitating recycling of components and material parts to their highest recycling potential. For instance, Article 6(5) of the 3R type-approval Directive clarifies that competent bodies acting in the name of type-approval authorities and issuing a Certificate of compliance for a manufacturer, need to “[…] describe the strategy recommended by the manufacturer […]”. Annex I(8) of the 3R type-approval Directive further requires that Type approval authorities checking the 3R calculation in a type approval submission “shall ensure that the data presentation form referred to in point 2 [the completed Annex A to standard ISO 22628: 2002] is coherent with the recommended strategy annexed to the certificate of compliance referred to in Article 6(1) of this Directive.” Though the latter article seems to clarify that the strategy needs to apply at least in part at vehicle level, according to stakeholders 
 197 
 strategies developed by manufacturers in this respect are quite general. Manufacturers explain that the information provided in such strategies on the dismantling of vehicle components at EoL is different from dismantling information provided to IDIS and quite general in nature. However, the information provided to IDIS only concerns components addressed under Annex I (3 & 4) of the ELV Directive and in consequence dismantling of other materials and components is not always economically feasible and thus not necessarily performed. This affects the level of circularity of vehicles. 
 In addition, there is no reporting obligation for the Member States and the Commission on the implementation of the 3R type-approval Directive and no regular monitoring has been carried out on this point. Therefore, it is not completely clear to what degree the way that the end-of-life requirements are linked to the 3R type-Approval Directive supports the placement on the market of vehicles that will fulfil the waste management obligations. Another important regulatory failure is that, while the overall type-approval framework has been considerably strengthened in 2018 in the aftermath of the ‘dieselgate’ with a focus on controlling emission standards, the 3R type-approval Directive has not yet been amended to reflect these changes, leaving significant legal uncertainties. 
 Another example on the insufficient link between the aims of the ELV Directive and Directive 2005/64/EC is the fact that the latter considers that “tyres should be considered as recyclable” for the purpose of calculating the recyclability of cars. There is no justification for this consideration, while available data show that, despite the potential, a large part of end-of-life tyres are actually not recycled. Declarations on fulfilment of the reuse, recycling and recovery (3R) targets submitted by vehicle manufacturers and checked by approval authorities (through the technical services/competent bodies) as part of the 3R type-approval process do not always reflect the achievable rates of the 3Rs at end-of-life. It shows that the current 3R type-approval process, as the procedural tool, lacks dynamic link with the ELV Directive and the flexibility to adjust to the changes of the legislation, such as increase the ambition level of targets, introduction of material specific recycling targets, etc. It shows that the current mechanism would not be able to guarantee a market surveillance of the vehicles not being able to comply with the development of the EU legislation. 
 – Regulatory/market failures – Lack of incentives to uptake secondary materials in manufacturing new vehicles 
 There is no obligation in EU law that financial incentives are provided to manufacturers when they design vehicles which contain recycled materials or are composed of materials and parts which can be easily repaired, dismantled, re-used, remanufactured or recycled 
 198 
 . The aspects of repairability, remanufacturing, reusability and recyclability are not considered so far in the of the Green Public Procurement criteria for road transport 
 199 
 . 
 It is also relevant to the increased use of lightweight materials, such as composite plastics, carbon-fibre, and fibre- reinforced materials, often used to reduce the vehicle weight with the aim to curb the CO 2 emissions in use, are not addressed in the ELV Directive. With the trend towards lightweight materials, this could even further affect the achievability of the circularity targets. 
 The 3R type-approval Directive does not sufficiently differentiate between non-recyclable and recyclable materials. De facto this allows vehicles making use of high volumes of non-recyclable to be placed on the market for which currently the EU is lacking recycling capacities. 
 – Regulatory and behavioural failures – insufficient information on dismantling 
 Decisions taken during the design phase of a vehicle have a direct impact to the material recovery levels of an end-of-life vehicle. This relationship between the two stages is acknowledged by the ELV Directive, which Article 4(1), first, requires manufacturers to produce the vehicles with the aim to facilitate their dismantling – one of the most decisive criteria determining the potential and actual levels of reuse, recycling and recovery of the end-of-life vehicles and their parts. However, the problem is that current provisions do not explain on how manufacturers should apply these obligations. This lack of clarity in decision making at the early stage of designing and assembling a vehicle has a significant impact on low quality of end-of-life treatment. Article 8 of the ELV Directive provides some guidelines by obliging the producers to “use component and material coding standards, in particular to facilitate the identification of those components and materials which are suitable for reuse and recovery”. Commission Decision 2003/138/EC 
 200 
 specifies which nomenclature of ISO component and material coding standards should be used for identification of certain plastic and rubber parts. However, as in the case of Article 8, the decision only requires identification of some material parts (plastic and rubber). While this information may facilitate identifying the parts of a certain composition and above a certain size, it does not facilitate their dismantling in terms of time and tools required for supporting this process. 
 – Regulatory failure – inconsistent and outdated provisions to restrict hazardous substances in vehicles 
 The ELV Directive, in its Article 4, requires vehicle manufacturers, in liaison with material and equipment manufacturers, to limit the use of hazardous substances in vehicles and to reduce them as far as possible from the conception of the vehicle onwards, so as in particular to prevent their release into the environment, make recycling easier, and avoid the need to dispose of hazardous waste. These generic provisions are embodied into specific limitations established for four substances (lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium) and their associated exceptions in Annex II of the Directive. There is no defined or established mechanism in the Directive to restrict further substances in vehicles and no other substances have been limited in vehicles since the adoption of the Directive in September 2000. 
 Consequently, there are no specific means in the Directive to address the adverse effects of additional hazardous substances in vehicles, beyond the four substances already regulated. Furthermore, the purpose of the Directive, as regards hazardous substances, as explained in its recital 11 and its Article 4, is that of reduction and control of hazardous substances in vehicles, in order to prevent their release into the environment, to facilitate recycling and to avoid the disposal of hazardous waste. The approach in the ELV Directive is not in line with the current life cycle thinking embedded in the Circular Economy Action Plan and in the Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability, which requires a full life-cycle approach in chemicals management (through one or several legislative tools) and where impacts on human health, and not only on the environment, have to be addressed. 
 6.2.3 How would the problem evolve? 
 New automotive technologies will continue to develop impacting the design and production of the vehicles. Transition to circularity of the sector is based on the voluntary initiatives taken by the frontrunners. It leads to another circularity weakening prognosis upon which the incentives, to design and produce vehicles in a way which limits the use of primary materials and prefers secondary ones, will remain limited and fragmented. As a result, the dependency of the automotive industry on the use of primary materials would remain high while use of secondary materials is expected to be limited due to the absence of material specific targets on the EU rules. As regards the concrete material streams, there is expected to be a high competition of metals in the market of secondary materials, due to the increased demand linked to the more intensive production of e-vehicles. Without setting recycled content targets, demand for recyclates in cases where there is no market e.g. plastic, will not be stimulated. 
 E-mobility 
 201 
 is expected to experience significant and rapid growth over the coming decades leading to 45% of the total fleet share by 2035 
 202 
 . The presence of CRMs used in vehicles are expected to increase proportionally. This growth and changes of the fleet composition will come with a number of additional challenges for the repair, dismantling, recycling and recovery of the materials, including composite ones. The current framework of the ELV Directive and 3R-type-approval Directive will not be able to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the future vehicles and the development of e-mobility value chains, in the context of the circular economy, addressing the social, environmental and health impacts generated, in particular given the expected growth in demand. Therefore, over time, the contribution of the circular economy objectives of reuse, repair and recycling is expected to decrease. 
 These areas of problems are also highlighted in the findings of F4F platform, signalling that recently, new vehicles have become increasingly difficult to dismantle and recycle as new substances are being used and the different parts of those vehicles as well as the way they are built into the vehicle have become more complex 
 203 
 . With the intensive electrification of vehicles and the expected increase in the use of electric components and parts, restricted access to the locked parts in the future will lead to a limited availability of valuable materials to be retrieved from these parts and components. Yet, dismantlers will continue being provided a limited information by vehicle manufacturers 
 204 
 regarding the presence, localisation, composition and re-use potential of components in ELV and regarding the presence of (hazardous) materials hampering high quality recycling. Moreover, the digitalisation potential, such as development of digital product passport will remain unexploited in this area, thus maintaining the burden for dismantling facilities in identifying of the different materials used in the specific car type, their location inside the vehicle and the connections between the different vehicle components. 
 It means that without the intervention, the current regulatory framework would not be sufficient to adapt future trends and development of the electrification of road transport, as an integral part of the Clean Mobility package 
 205 
 and the Commission’s ambition to decarbonise the EU economy, improve the competitiveness of strategic value chains in the context of “Fit for 55” package 
 206 
 to enable the automotive industry to contribute to the EU increased climate ambition for 2030 and climate neutrality target for 2050. 
 6.3. Problem area 2: Lack of quality and quantity in reuse and recycling at end-of-life treatment 
 6.3 
 6.3.1 What is the problem? 
 The management of vehicles reaching the end of their life does not currently take place in optimal conditions. Based on the reports from the Member States, about 6,1 million ELVs (58%) are reported as collected at ATFs in the EU every year, representing 6,9 million tonnes of waste 
 207 
 . Based on the average material composition of ELVs, this represents a material flow of 66% (4 million tonnes) of ferrous metals, 11% (0,7 million tonnes) of non-ferrous metals, 2% (0,1 million tonnes (glass)) and 14% (1 million tonnes 
 208 
 ) of mixed plastics 
 209 
 . 
 Article 7 of the ELV Directive sets out 85% target for the re-use and recycling and 95% target for re-use and recovery of ELVs. Member States reports show a high degree of compliance with both targets at EU-level: 88% for the reuse/recycling and 94% for re-use/ recovery based on an average weight of an ELV. 
 Figure 6.2 Reuse/recovery and reuse/recycling rate for end-of-life vehicles, 2019 
 While overall statistical reporting shows a positive trend, a significant amount of materials from end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) is still being sent to landfills or incinerated, generating negative environmental externalities. The share of spare parts and components from ELVs which are re-used or remanufactured remains very low. 
 The management of plastic waste from ELVs poses particular challenges. The share of plastics in the composition of vehicles has considerably increased, and today range from 14 to 18% of the total weight of new passenger cars. This increase is linked to the attempts by the automotive industry to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions linked to the use of vehicles, through a decrease in the weight of the materials contained in vehicles, and the replacement of heavy ones like steel with lightweight ones like plastics. Only 19% of plastics or 0,2 million tonnes from ELV is currently going to recycling and 0.1 million tonnes effectively recycled, while around 0.8 million tonnes of plastic waste ends up every year in landfills (40%) or is sent to waste-to-energy facilities (41%). Carbon fibres and most of all, glass fibres reinforced plastics are other lightweight materials more and more integrated in new vehicles, and which cannot currently be recycled. In addition to this, the generalisation of electronics in new vehicles also poses considerable challenges when vehicles reach the end of their life, as most of the critical raw materials including rare earth elements that they contain are currently not recycled 
 210 
 . Finally, while the recycling rates of metals like steel (88%) or aluminium (95%) from ELVs are high, the quality of the scrap is often suboptimal due to contamination with other materials during the shredding process (typically high level of copper content in steel scrap and unsorted aluminium alloys with zinc, copper, silicon and magnesium alloying elements accumulating in cast aluminium). 
 Beyond its environmental impact, the suboptimal management of waste from ELVs represents a loss of resources for the industry in the EU, either because waste is not recycled back into the economy (especially for plastics or glass) or because the quality of the scrap is often too low (especially for steel and aluminium) , so that it cannot be used for future applications, low carbon production and requires the mixing with an important share of primary raw materials when it is further processed. 
 6.3.2 What are the problem drivers? 
 The potential for higher quantity and quality of materials from ELVs to be re-used, remanufactured and recycled remains underexploited, due to the following regulatory, market and behavioural failures: 
 – Regulatory failure - definitions are not aligned with the sectoral legislation 
 The definition of “recycling” in the ELV Directive is broader than the definition of recycling which applies to all other types of waste, pursuant to the Waste Framework Directive . Indeed, “backfilling 
 211 
 ” is accounted for as recycling under the ELV Directive, which is not the case under the later Waste Framework Directive. In some Member States, considerable amounts of wastes from ELVs, especially inerts, glass particles, mixed plastics, rubbers, fibres and textiles are destined to backfilling, which is accounted as recycled. 
 While the Waste Framework Directive distinguishes between ‘reuse’ and ‘preparing for reuse’, the ELV Directive establishes its own definition of ‘reuse’. Under Article 2(6) of the ELV Directive ‘reuse’ means any operation by which components of end-of-life vehicles are used for the same purpose for which they were conceived. 
 The Waste Framework Directive (WFD) 
 212 
 (Article 3(13)) adopts a different approach. Here ‘ re-use ’ means any operation by which products or components that are not waste are used again for the same purpose for which they were conceived. Therefore, the WFD includes a definition for “Preparing for re-use” as checking, cleaning or repairing recovery operations, by which products or components of products that have become waste are prepared so that they can be re-used without any other pre-processing. The ELV Directive does not provide the definition on “preparation for reuse”, which means that components of a vehicle that has reached the waste phase are reused. There is a lack of clear definition on the status of these components as if they shall be considered as waste or not. If yes, the definition of “reuse” according to ELV Directive is not aligned with the WFD, thus the components that have reached the waste phase can be used for reuse, whereas in the WFD this is enabled through their “preparing for reuse”. Components that are considered as waste, their shipment for re-use or remanufacturing is more challenging (e.g., higher transport costs, higher administrative burden). 
 Removal of parts from ELVs prior to shredding is a precondition for increasing their rate of reuse of. It also supports higher quality recycling notably, in cases where it is not feasible to recycle a certain fraction after shredding (e.g., neodymium magnets) or where such recycling is limited in the quality of secondary raw material that it can achieve due to a high level of impurities (e.g., aluminium). The ELV Directive sets out minimum technical requirements for treatment of ELVs to promote reuse and recycling (Article 6(1) and (3) and Annex I(4)) that are not sufficiently precise and thus have limited effect on reuse . , the list of parts/materials to be removed before shredding is rather limited. Stakeholders have mentioned additional parts for which removal prior to shredding enables reuse or higher quality recycling. These are primarily the electric components which have become prevalent in supporting new functions and boosting performance of a vehicle. However, current legislation does not contain clear requirements, for instance, obliging such components, as printed circuit boards, be removed from the vehicle prior to shredding as it is required for example under the Waste Electric and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive. Moreover, electric components are often intensive in various valuable and critical raw materials and their recycling would likely improve were they removed and sent to separate treatment or reuse. 
 Due to the lack of legal clarity, a decision to remove certain parts is rather motivated by different economic considerations, such as market prices for materials, available dismantling equipment and labour costs, but not the fact the functionality of a part itself. 
 – Regulatory/market failures - no incentive for economic operators to increase the re-use and remanufacturing rates of spare parts from used vehicles or ELVs 
 The ELV and 3R type-approval Directives do not contain specific provisions designed to boost the re-use of such parts, as re-use is considered together with recycling (for example there is a joint “re-use and recycling” target) and they do include definitions for (preparing for) remanufacturing and clarity on the ‘end-of-waste’ status of reused, repurposed or remanufactured parts. The absence of definitions creates an unlevel playing field which penalises the market for used spare parts. The low market demand for used/remanufactured spare parts is also due to the absence of clear guarantees on their traceability and safety, as well as the limited interest by most economic operators to adapt their business models and stop relying on new parts and in case remanufactured, the provision of a limited warranty for its second use. 
 It means that a vehicle part will be removed and offered for reuse only if the market demand is met and external costs including dismantling, verification, tests, labour, storage and handling do not exceed profit of selling used part on the market. This explains why the price of used components cannot cover the costs of dismantling and any operations which are essential to enable reuse/remanufacturing. 
 As in the case of secondary materials, today reuse, remanufacturing is carried mainly by the frontrunners. For example, BMW claims that “by choosing remanufacture – the industrial processing of used parts to bring them up to the same standards as new parts – over the manufacturing of new parts, reductions of 85 percent of the raw material and 55 percent of energy can be made” 
 213 
 . 
 Though various components have a high potential for re-use and remanufacture, ATFs (as also repair shops and garages) will only dismantle and prepare for reuse components for which they observe there to be a sufficient market demand. In some cases, the demand is related to the quality of a component (e.g., there is low demand for components that have very few malfunctions as they do not need to be repaired and for components that have many malfunctions as the ATF cannot guarantee minimum warranty). But for most components, demand could be increased by ensuring that consumers are aware of the option of reused and remanufactured components as alternatives to new ones and as to their related advantages (reduced costs). 
 As part of its Circular Economy legislation 
 214 
 , France established an obligation to increase the demand for reused/remanufactured components in 2018: car repair shops must make an offer to repair a vehicle with used components in parallel to the offer to repair it with new components. 
 There are also a few examples of insurance companies, which voluntarily opted for a proactive policy for a sustainable management of ELVs. This includes, for example, the establishment of partnerships between an insurance company in France and a network of qualified ATF and repair companies, to increase application of reused/remanufactured components. For this purpose, the insurance company has been requesting every partner to systematically dismantle economically irretrievable vehicles older than 8 years and vehicles technically irretrievable (i.e., classified by the insurance company as a “total loss” after an accident). Dismantled used components from these vehicles can then be proposed by the company to its insurance policy holders to repair their vehicles in cases that the repair is performed under an insurance policy. The procedure assumes that the partners dismantle mainly economically valuable components. Since the majority of irretrievable vehicles are vehicles after collision accidents, the insurance company mainly deals with components such as bodywork, doors, and optical elements. Since 2012, the insurance company managed to increase the application of used components systematically every year, so that the initial target to repair 10 % of the 300,000 insured vehicles with re-used components by 2022 was already achieved in 2020. Aside from the environmental benefits of this practice, it has additional economic and social advantages, as it allows offering lower insurance policy costs to vehicle owners that agree to repair their cars with used spare parts (in cases of insured repairs). 
 Currently, there are no legal restrictions on the online sales of used components. Lack of such restrictions promotes illegal facilities, since the used components from non-legal operators can be offered for sale at lower prices than those offered by authorised facilities 
 215 
 . The EU law does not set the basis to take incentives and take enforcement measures towards protecting legal operators. This is in particular relevant for online sales, when the used components are not only sourced from licensed ATFs 
 216 
 . It results in competition of alternative markets, where same components are offered on the market by un-authorised dismantlers at lower prices than those of ATFs. 
 – Regulatory failure – reporting of Members States on their reuse and recycling targets is not harmonised 
 Provisions in the ELV Directive are not material-specific and measurable. In addition, the methodology to calculate that the recycling/re-use targets are met is not sufficient to provide clear evidence that the recycling rates have been effectively achieved. This is firstly due to shortcomings in the reporting foreseen in Commission Decision 2005/293/EC 
 217 
 . Lack of sufficiently clear reporting obligations undermined the effectiveness of the ELV Directive by hindering the proper monitoring the implementation of re-use, recycling and recovery targets by the relevant economic actors across the Member States. For instance, the quality reports that accompany the Eurostat standard questionnaire for Member States on the quality and validity of the data are voluntary. As a result, the content of these reports varies across the Member States, creating a barrier for the Eurostat to validate the data. 
 Another reason is that this methodology has not been adapted to reflect the improvements introduced at the EU level for other waste streams 
 218 
 , designed to ensure that only waste which enters recycling is counted towards the achievement of the targets. There is no clear methodology under the ELV Directive that ensures that losses of materials which occur before the waste enters the recycling operation, for instance due to sorting, shredding or other preliminary operations, are excluded from the calculation of recycling rates. The current ELV Directive allows two different calculation methods which cause significantly different amounts of reuse reported by the Member States. Member States not using the metal content assumption (MCA) shall calculate reuse on the basis of the subtraction method, while Member States using the MCA shall determine reuse (excluding the metal components) on the basis of declarations from the authorised treatment facilities. The reuse of metal components will not be displayed separately if the MCA is applied but reported together with the metals recycled. In result, it is not possible to compare the reuse between Member States applying the MCA and MS that do not. As the target is also a combined target for recycling and reuse, the Member States are not encouraged to support (or even monitor) reuse separately (as it should be when following the waste hierarchy). As the Member States do not report on the treatment capacities (in particular the information of post shredder treatment (PST) plants would be needed), it is also not possible for the EC to assess if the reported data on recycling rates is valid or not. In some cases, Member States report high recycling rates without having PST plants. However, without PST plants it is difficult (or even not possible) to achieve such high recycling rates. Lack of sufficiently clear reporting obligations undermined the effectiveness of the ELV Directive by hindering the proper monitoring the implementation of re-use, recycling and recovery targets by the relevant economic actors across the Member States. 
 – Regulatory/behavioural failures - insufficient information requirements for the vehicle manufacturers on presence, localisation, composition of materials and re-use potential of parts/ components 
 The ELV and 3R type-approval Directives do not either sufficiently incentivise car manufacturers to provide dismantling information on car components and materials that would facilitate ATFs, garages and repair shops to identify, locate and dismantle valuable spare parts and components. The provisions on this point in Article 8 of the ELV Directive, and their implementation by the car manufacturers, are often seen by the dismantling sector as too limited, notably as the information might not be free of charge and do not contain user-friendly instructions. The fact that some parts installed in cars cannot be re-used as they are locked with digital keys is another factor mentioned by dismantlers impeding their re-use or re-manufacturing. 
 While the EU rules have attempted to contribute to improve transparency of the information needed for dismantling, it did not affect design and production of a vehicle, with the aim to ease the reuse, recycling and recovery of the parts and materials. Moreover, localisation of materials and access to the information still remains restricted. These aspects influenced the current situation where only metal and metallic components (such as catalytic converters and batteries) are almost 100% reused and/or recycled. Meanwhile, a higher share of non-metallic components, (e.g. glass, tyres and most plastics) are directed to energy recovery or disposal. The share of re-use is only 12,5% 
 219 
 . 
 To bridge the aspects on design and dismantling of a vehicle, the car industry established the International Dismantling Information System (IDIS). Under this platform, 26 manufacturers with 79 brands and 3477 models and variants use IDIS to provide dismantling information free of charge to around 7000 registered users (e.g. ATFs) in 31 languages in 40 countries on components that need to be dismantled according to Annex I, section 3 and 4 of the ELV Directive 
 220 
 . In addition to it, producers are also required to provide the information on repair and maintenance information (RMI) to promote the reuse of parts and components. Under the EU “RMI Regulations” 
 221 
 it obliged independent operators to grant an easy, restriction-free and standardised access to vehicle RMI. 
 However, it is important to note that the ELV Directive does not oblige the producers to provide such information free of charge. Stakeholders from the repair and dismantling sectors, as well as those involved in the sale of spare parts, have been complaining of a lack of transparency from the car manufacturing side with regard to the characteristics of components in cars, as the car manufacturers often invoke commercial or confidentiality reasons to limit in practice the sharing of this information. Investigation by the European Commission concluded “The key issues involve challenges for repairers when accessing RMI directly from OEM websites. The wide variation in user interfaces and software incompatibilities cause great inconvenience to users, particularly occasional users or repairers that service many different brands” 
 222 
 . Divergent interpretation by stakeholders of certain aspects has also been identified as an additional shortcoming. Because of this investigation, the requirements that were previously in the RMI Regulations have been consolidated and are now detailed under Article 61 of Regulation 2018/858/EU 
 223 
 . This change is aimed to ensure easier access and use of RMI information by independent operators, which had struggled in the past as information was provided “piece by piece” affecting its comprehension and usability. In this respect, Article 61 specifies that “Independent operators shall have access to the remote diagnosis services used by manufacturers and authorised dealers and repairers”. This obligation is not understood to require the provision of such information for-free. In consequence, as in the past, the producers provide ATFs with access to RMI with the same approach as for any independent operator (e.g. of a repair garage), i.e. at a cost. Such conditional access to the relevant information is often factor for some ATFs to promote removal and reuse of parts, due to the incurred additional costs. It weakens the possibility to open the full potential of the vehicle circularity. 
 Increased amount of the electric and electronic equipment in a vehicle, insufficient access to data is also a relevant problem for economic operators, such as repair shops, ATFs, as these parts are coded and locked by the manufacturers. This limits reuse potential of these components. In a study performed by EGARA 
 224 
 , 20-35 of dismantled pieces were identified as impossible to be used despite being suitable for multiple models and makes. 
 – Market and regulatory failures – high-quality end-of-life treatment of ELVs is not profitable 
 It is currently not profitable in most Member States to recycle from ELVs materials like plastics and glass, as well as precious metals from electronic components. Economies of scale and incentives to promote better quality of scrap are lacking. Similarly, spare parts like bumpers, dashboards and windshields are not re-used or remanufactured. The cost for their dismantling is high and not covered by the revenues from their sales. As a result, authorised treatment facilities, which receive ELVs from their last owners and carry out their depollution, do not remove these materials or parts before forwarding depolluted ELVs to shredders. ATFs are almost all SMEs which make most of their business in the commercialisation of the most valuable spare parts removed from ELVs and the sale of depolluted ELVs to shredders. Their economic viability is fragile and they would not be able to absorb new costs linked to additional dismantling operations. Most of them are not equipped (for example through access to digital marketplaces) to reach out a wide range of customers, which limits the market for these sparts. 
 For shredder companies, usually also SMEs, the shredding process will generate low or negatively valued residue fractions that are either landfilled, incinerated with energy recovery, or used for backfilling without recovery of remaining metal content. This is except for those countries where sophisticated “post shredding technologies” (PST) is in place which allows for the segregation, separation and recovery of these materials. Here again, the investment costs and competing recycling routes providing lower quality but also lower gate fees, represent a barrier to further development of PST technologies. Without investment security and cost compensation, PST technologies are not fully deployed throughout the EU. 
 The same impediments prevent ferrous and non-ferrous metal materials from ELVs from being recycled into high quality steel or aluminium scrap. Many shredders are operated flexibly to treat mixed scrap and to realise economies of scale. These unsorted operations and a widespread practice not to remove components like engines and gear-boxes despite the requirement in Annex I of the ELV Directive lead to subsequent contaminations of copper in steels and difficult to sort aluminium alloys, which advanced PST treatment or subsequent treatment of these ELV scraps cannot overcome. 
 There is no regulatory intervention which would allow to overcome the market failure described in the points above. Especially, the ELV Directive does not specify that car manufacturers should contribute financially to the costs linked to the dismantling, re-use, remanufacturing and recycling of materials and components from ELVs. This is in contrast also to what applies in the EU for other sectors, like batteries, electric and electronic equipment and packaging, where “extended producer responsibility” (EPR) schemes explicitly include the financing by producers of the waste management phase of their products. The Waste Framework Directive also makes it clear that, when EPR schemes are established, they should cover inter alia the costs necessary to meet waste management targets. The absence of legal obligations under the ELV Directive on this issue is all the more problematic as the automotive industry has traditionally been reluctant to provide, on a voluntary basis, financial support to the waste management phase of vehicles. In March 2022, the Commission carried out inspections at the premises of automotive companies and associations of such companies, based on concerns that several of them may have violated antitrust rules and colluded to agree not to provide any financial support to the dismantling and recycling sector. The investigations on this case are ongoing 
 225 
 . 
 There is no offset mechanism for the mandatory ELV treatment costs. The provisions in the ELV Directive on the producers’ responsibility for the management of ELVs are limited when compared to the obligations for producers in other sectors to contribute financially to the waste management phase of their products, pursuant to the Waste Framework Directive and other EU waste legislation (for example electric and electronic equipment or packaging). 
 Currently, “shared responsibility” is applied across the Member States, where producers demonstrate (either individually or jointly in a PRO) the compliance with the requirement that ELVs are taken free of charge back from the consumer by contracts with ATFs confirming the free take back. Details of contracts with ATFs, e.g. whether there is compensation for ATFs, are usually not disclosed. Different stakeholders emphasized that the free take back declarations are issued by ATFs without or with minimal compensation for the ATFs. This system is based on the assumption that it is economically feasible to comply with the requirements of the ELV Directive without cost compensation by producers. Moreover, different levels of costs associated with the ELV collection and treatment at the national level encourage trade of the used vehicles approaching the end-of-life stage both intra-EU and extra-EU. 
 The current system is not future-proof and currently only economically viable recycling is conducted 
 226 
 . In addition, the system is exposed to strong competition of the illegal sector. Furthermore, even for materials which are accounted as fully or nearly fully recycled under the ELV Directive (steel and non-ferrous metals), there is no incentive to perform high-quality recycling, such as ensuring that steel or aluminium scrap from shredding contain minimum levels of contamination by other metals (i.e. copper). This reduces the value of such steel or aluminium scrap and the possibility to use them in a number of applications. 
 The market conditions therefore do not allow to internalise the costs linked to high quality recycling and re-use of materials from ELVs and the current EU regulatory framework does not address this problem either. 
 Currently there is no harmonised approach at the EU level ensuring the financial profitability of a full scare and high–quality recycling and re-use of materials, parts and components from ELVs. It is closely linked to the fact that the EPR schemes are generally set up at national level addressing mainly products purchased and consumed in a given country. However, end-of-life treatment of vehicles is labour intensive and a further complication results that EPR fees taking into account different cost structures. In the meantime, national EPR schemes for ELVs are not suit to cover collection, depollution and dismantling costs of those ELVs which final treatment occurs in another Member State than the one where a vehicle was originally placed on the market and the EPR fees paid. National EPR schemes would require uniform rules and a transfer system to cover the expenses for the processing of ELVs that are collected in a MS where they have not been placed on the market as new car. 
 Different cost coverage requirements have been adopted by the Member States linked to the implementation of the ELV Directive, either through the establishment of fees paid to the administration or the establishment of producer responsibility scheme in almost a half of all the Member States. These measures are mostly focusing on the basic obligations under the ELV Directive, e.g. collection of ELVs and their delivery to ATF. They do not address the costs linked to the compliance of obligations linked to the dismantling and recycling/re-use of materials, parts and components of ELVs. 
 In some situations, dismantling information is provided by manufacturers for a fee, in others it is provided freely to certain actors or not at all. The main difficulty in the current situation is related to certain data not always being accessible to ATFs which could facilitate an increase in reuse or recycling were the data available. In some cases, this is a result of a lack of harmonisation or of certain actors not making use of platforms already available. 
 Moreover, end-of-life treatment of new generation type of vehicles, i.e. electric vehicles, includes the removal and storage of end-of-life batteries, requires special training, knowledge and specialized infrastructure for the ATFs leading to additional financial burden. These aspects, related to the change of the vehicles produced, e.g., weight, material composition. 
 Therefore, today the problem the lack of profitability of the dismantling/recycling sector is the most prevailing. It jeopardises the attainment of the objectives of the ELV Directive and would be an obstacle to the attainment of more ambitious targets designed to ensure a higher recovery of all materials in ELVs and a better quality of the recyclates stemming from their recycling. 
 6.3.3 How would the problem evolve? 
 The current design of the ELV Directive leaves the treatment of end-of-life vehicles behind its possibilities, as explained in F4F opinion 
 227 
 . Under the business-as-usual scenario, insufficient reuse and material recycling of end-of-life vehicles in the EU would evolve over the next decades, continuing to bring environmental, economic and social concerns. 
 The sub-optimal treatment of end-of-life vehicles would in particular contribute to the loss of valuable secondary resources in the context of the circular economy, such as plastics, metals and CRMs. The current design of the ELV Directive leaves the treatment of end-of-life vehicles behind its possibilities. 
 EU and its Member States would continue to implement and enforce the requirements set out in the ELV Directive, which will be remain of the generic manner and will not be aligned with the sectoral legislation. In this sense, the ELV Directive will maintain only minimum targets of reuse, recycling and recovery based on weight criterion and recycling definition covering ‘backfilling’. The expected changes in the design of vehicles, increasing the amounts of plastics and materials with unclear recyclability with a view of reducing weight can be expected to change the balance between the share that is reused and recycled and that recovered or even worse landfilled. Achieving the reuse and recycling target of 85% is expected to become harder in the following years. While some Member States may attempt introducing individual regulation to ensure higher levels of reuse and recycling, it is expected that others will have an increasingly harder time complying with the current targets. 
 The low quality and quantity of end-of-life treatment of vehicles can also have negative economic costs, as it can lead to the loss of valuable resources that could instead be recycled or reused. If the current situation continues, currently disproportionate regulatory burden faced by ATFs will remain, as discussed in the F4F platform opinion 
 228 
 . It will become challenging in particular, as the ELV Directive does not set out clear requirements of the extended producer responsibility (EPR), how the costs deriving from mandatory treatment operations, e.g. depollution, removal of parts and components, including batteries, would need to be compensated. Therefore, the absence of specific provisions in the ELV Directive on the responsibility of producers will further hamper the transition of the automotive sector to a circular economy. The economic viability of the ELV dismantling/recycling sector will remain fragile and hardly allow them to meet the current targets on recycling and re-use set out in the ELV Directive without providing any additional economic incentive for ELV treatment higher up in waste hierarchy, which also address